Kang Hong-rip (1560 – 6 September 1627) was a Korean general during the Joseon Dynasty.
Under repeated requests from Ming China, Gwanghaegun commanded Gang Hongrip to help Ming forces with ten thousand soldiers against the Manchus in 1619. However, Ming armies were crushed in the Battle of Sarhū. The Korean army under command of Liu Ting lost two-thirds of his troops at Fuca and surrendered to Nurhaci. Official Korean records say that Gwanghaegun had ordered a betrayal to Nurhaci, but it is suspected to be a defamation by the Westerners faction, who deposed the king. In 1620 almost all Korean captives were released but Gang Hongrip, who had good command of the Manchu language, was still kept.
Frustrated with unsatisfactory reward for the coup which deposed Gwanghaegun, Yi Gwal rebelled against King Injo in 1624. He temporarily occupied Hanseong (modern-day Seoul), but was eventually crushed. Yi Gwal was then executed by his own soldiers. Han Myeong-nyeon, an accomplice of Yi Gwal, was also killed, but his son Han Yun fled to the Later Jin (Manchus).
Gang Hongrip fell for Han Yun's trick and wrongly believed that his family was all killed by the Joseon government. To get his revenge on Korea, he urged the Manchus to defeat the Joseon dynasty. In 1627 he guided the Later Jin army led by Amin to Hanseong and as a Manchu delegate he negotiated for a truce with Korea. Then he discovered that he was deceived about his family being killed and suffered a heartbreak. He was branded as a traitor and deprived of his official rank. He was rehabilitated after his death.

Family
Parents

Father - Kang Shin (판중추부사 강신, 姜紳) (1543 - 1615)
Grandfather - Kang Sa-sang (우의정 강사상, 姜士尙) (1519 - 1581)
Great-Grandfather - Kang On (강온, 姜溫) (1496 - 1533)
Great-Great-Grandfather - Kang Yeong-suk (강영숙, 姜永叔)
Great-Great-Great-Grandfather - Kang Hyeong (대사간 증 참판 강형, 姜詗)Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandfather - Kang Ja-pyeong (감사 강자평, 姜子平) (1430 - 1486)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandmother - Lady Yi of the Jeonju Yi clan (전주 이씨)
Great-Great-Grandmother - Lady Yi of the Ikju Yi clan (익주 이씨, 益州 李氏); daughter of Yi Jeong-yang (첨지 이정양, 李貞陽)
Great-Grandmother - Lady Park of the Miryang Park clan (밀양 박씨); daughter of Park Sik (박식, 朴栻)
Grandmother - Lady Im; daughter of Im Gan (임간, 任幹), Kang Shin’s first wife
Uncle - Kang Seo (강서, 姜緖) (1538 - 1589)
Half-aunt - Lady Kang of the Jinju Kang clan (진주 강씨, 晉州 姜氏)
Uncle - Min Yeo-geon (민여건, 閔汝健) (1538 - 1585) of the Yeoheung Min clan
Half-aunt - Lady Kang of the Jinju Kang clan (진주 강씨, 晉州 姜氏)
Uncle - Yi Ui-ga (이의가, 李義可)
Half-uncle - Kang In (강인, 姜絪) (1555 - 1634)
Half-uncle - Kang Dam (강담, 姜紞) (1559 - 1637)
Half-aunt - Lady Kang of the Jinju Kang clan (진주 강씨, 晉州 姜氏)
Uncle - Kim Chung-gak (김충각, 金忠慤)
Mother - Lady Jeong of the Dongrae Jeong clan (동래 정씨)
Grandfather - Jeong Yu-ui (정유의, 鄭惟義)Wives and issues:

Lady Hwang of the Wooju Hwang clan (우주 황씨); daughter of Hwang Yi-hyeong (황이형, 黃履亨)
Son - Kang Suk (강숙, 姜璹)
Son - Kang Won (강원, 姜瑗)
Son - Kang Chan (강찬, 姜瓚)
Daughter - Lady Kang of the Jinju Kang clan (진주 강씨)
Son-in-law - Yun Gam (윤감, 尹堪)
Daughter - Lady Kang of the Jinju Kang clan (진주 강씨)
Son-in-law - Sim Ja (진사 심자, 沈鎡)
Daughter - Lady Kang of the Jinju Kang clan (진주 강씨)
Son-in-law - Yi Hyeon-dal (통제사 이현달, 李顯達)

In popular culture
Portrayed by Ahn Dae-yong in the 1995 KBS2 TV Series West Palace.

See also
History of Korea


== References ==