My Dearest (Korean: 연인) is an ongoing South Korean television series starring Namkoong Min, Ahn Eun-jin, Lee Hak-joo, Lee Da-in, Kim Yun-woo, and Lee Chung-ah. According to writer Hwang Jin-young, it is inspired by the 1936 novel Gone with the Wind. It premiered on MBC TV on August 4, 2023, and airs every Friday and Saturday at 21:50 (KST). It is also available for streaming on Wavve is South Korea, and on Viki in selected regions.The series is divided into two parts: Part 1 aired from August 4 to September 2, 2023 for ten episodes, while Part 2 premiered on October 13.

Synopsis
The series is set during the Qing invasion of Joseon, and portrays the inspiring story of people who find hope and positivity even in the most challenging times.

Cast
Main
Namkoong Min as Lee Jang-hyun: an enigmatic nobleman who does not give his sincerity to anything, but after getting to know a woman, he opens the door to his unexpected fate.Moon Seong-hyun as young Lee Jang-hyun
Ahn Eun-jin as Yoo Gil-chae: the daughter of a noble family who gets entangled with Jang-hyun.
Lee Hak-joo as Nam Yeon-joon: a promising Confucian student at Sungkyunkwan.
Lee Da-in as Kyung Eun-ae: Yeon-joon's fiancée and Gil-chae's closest friend.
Kim Yun-woo as Ryang-eum: Jang-hyun's close friend who is the best pansori singer in Joseon.
Lee Chung-ah as Gak-hwa: Hong Taiji's daughter and princess of Qing dynasty.

Supporting
People around Gil-chae
Ji Seung-hyun as Gu Won-moo: a military officer.
Park Jung-yeon as Jong Jong-yi: Gil-chae's maid.
Kwon So-hyun as Bang Du-ne: Eun-ae's maid.

People around Jang-hyun
Park Kang-seop as Gu-jam: Jang-hyun's servant.
Choi Moo-sung as Yang-cheon: a gangster.

Joseon royal family and subjects
Kim Jong-tae as King Injo: the sixteenth ruler of Joseon.
Kim Moo-jun as Crown Prince Sohyeon: King Injo's eldest son.
Jeon Hye-won as Crown Princess Kang: Crown Prince Sohyeon's wife.
So Yoo-jin as Royal Consort So-yong Jo: King Injo's favorite concubine.
Yang Hyun-min as Pyo Eon-gyeom: Crown Prince Sohyeon's loyal eunuch.
Kim Tae-hoon as Choe Myeong-gil: a pragmatist who does not bend his decisions and prioritizes the national interests.
Choi Jong-hwan as Kim Sang-heon: a loyal subject.
Ha Kyung as Shin I-rip
Jung Byung-cheol as Bong-si: King Injo's eunuch.

People from Qing dynasty
Choi Young-woo as Yonggoldae: a military officer.
Kim Jun-won as Hong Taiji: the emperor of Qing dynasty.
Kang Gil-woo as Jung Myung-soo: an interpreter.

People in Neunggun-ri
Oh Man-seok as Yoo Gyo-yeon: Gil-chae's father.
Jo Seung-yeon as Kyung Geun-jik: Eun-ae's father.
Park Jong-wook as Gong Sun-yak: the only son of the village head.
Park Eun-woo as Yoo Young-chae: Gil-chae's younger sister.
Jung Han-yong as Song-chu: a clerk at Neunggun-ri seowon.
Nam Gi-ae as Yi-rang: Song-chu's wife.
Park Jin-woo as Park Dae: Du-ne's husband and Gil-chae's helper.
Jin Geon-woo as Dae-oh: a Confucian scholar.
Kim Ga-hee as Yoo-hwa
Kim Eun-soo as Jun-jeol: a Confucian scholar.
Ha Gyu-rim as Im-chun: a lady who has bright and cheerful personality.
Nam Tae-hoon as Tae-seong: a Confucian scholar.
Choi Su-gyeon as Jung-yeon

Others
Moon Seong-geun as Jang-cheol: spiritual leader of Confucian scholars.
Min Ji-ah as In-ok: a captive woman taken by barbarians.

Extended
Kim Seo-an as Young-rang: a young kisaeng.
Jeon Guk-hyang as Ae-bok
Kim Eun-woo as a general of the Qing dynasty
Lee Young-seok as Deok-chul: a blacksmith worker.
Lee Nam-hee as Lee Young-ik
Jeon Jin-oh as Maeng-tan
Yoo Ji-yeon as Hwa-yu
Kim Jung-ho as Yoon Chin-wang

Special appearances
Lee Soo-min as So-ya
Yoo Jae-suk as a farmer
Haha as a farmer
Joo Woo-jae as a farmer
Park Jin-joo as a farmer
Lee Yi-kyung as a farmer
Lee Mi-joo as a farmer
Lee Mi-do as Yang-sseu

Production
The script reading of the cast was held in December 2022.In May 2023, MBC announced the termination of the contract with an external company providing background actors, after it was revealed that an actor who was cast for a minor role in My Dearest was one of the twelve perpetrators of a sexual assault in 2004.On November 9, 2023, it was announced that the series will be extended by one episode due to its popularity, and will end with 21 episodes. The final episode is scheduled to air on November 18.

Viewership
Notes
References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
My Dearest at IMDb 
My Dearest at HanCinema