The Cheongju Han clan (Hangul: 청주 한씨, Hanja: 淸州 韓氏) is a Korean clan who are well known for their many female members including six queens.The Cheongju Han clan was one of the most prominent clans during the Joseon period, currently, the Cheongju Han is known as a clan that has long been prominent in Korean politics, public service, business and arts.

Origin
The members of the Cheongju Han clan claim descent from the sage Jizi (or Kija), who was a noble from the Chinese Shang dynasty, and rode his white horse and set a nation in "The Farthest East". They were the descendents of Urang (友諒), the son of King Jun, the last monarch of the Gija period, during the ancient Gojoseon Kingdom.
The founder of the Cheongju Han clan was Han Ran (한란; 韓蘭; 853–916), the 32nd descendent of Urang.

History
The clan provided the largest number of generals during the Joseon dynasty. The Cheongju Han clan is well known for the many female members who produced most royal consorts including most six queens. They had produced six queens, five princesses consort, three royal concubines, 315 scholars, 12 Sangshin, 14 Gongshin, and 1 Daejejak throughout the Joseon dynasty.A member of this clan was Queen Insu, wife of Crown Prince Uigyeong, and the first female author in Korean history, who wrote Naehun, a Confucian morality guidebook for women.

Genealogy book
The Cheongju Han's genealogy records (jokbo; 族譜) written by Han Hyo-jung, Han Hyuk and others in 1617, during the Joseon dynasty, is considered important bibliographically. In addition, the overall system and recording method are different from other genealogies, having a feature that places great importance on royal records.

Living members
Han Duck-soo, the 34th Prime Minister of South Korea
Han Myeong-sook, the 33rd Prime Minister of South Korea (as the first female)
Han Min-goo, Minister of National Defense (2014 – 2017)
Han Kang, novelist
Han Sung-joo, Minister of Foreign Affairs (1993 – 1994) and Ambassador to the United States (2003 – 2005)
Han Seung-soo, the 35th Prime Minister of South Korea and President of the United Nations General Assembly (2001 – 2002)
Han Terra, South Korean polymath
Han Hyun-min, South Korean model

Royalty of the Chinese Ming dynasty
Consort Kanghuizhuangshuli of the Korean Cheongju Han clan (康惠莊淑麗妃) (late 14th century – 1424); married to Yongle Emperor.
Lady Gongshen of the Korean Cheongju Han clan (恭慎夫人 清州韓氏) (1410 – 1483); younger sister of Consort Kanghuizhuangshuli; married to Xuande Emperor.

Royalty of the Joseon dynasty
Queen Sinui
Queen Jangsun
Queen Insu
Queen Ansun
Queen Gonghye
Queen Inyeol
Royal Consort Gwi-in
Royal Consort Suk-ui
Royal Noble Consort On

See also
Korean clans of foreign origin
Korean nobility
Bone-rank system
Yangban
House of Yi
Emperor of Japan
Emperor of China


== References ==