The Divine Weapon (Korean: 신기전; Hanja: 神機箭; RR: Singijeon) is a 2008 South Korean action drama film starring Jung Jae-young and Han Eun-jung. It was released on September 4, 2008.

Plot
During the reign of King Sejong the Great, Joseon Korea faces increasing hostility from Ming China. Ming China, without restraint, mounts unrelenting demands against the Korean crown, further entrenching distrust and aversion to subservience. Ming China has especially been provoked by a leaked news that Korea had under way an arms development program that would undermine theirs. Mounting pressure by threat of invasion and sending down Emperor's commands requesting tribute pf young Korean girls to be sent to China, to reduce Korea's manpower and debilitate its military capacity, the grip around the throat becomes ever tighter. It seems Joseon's fate is dependent on completing an unfinished project - that of making Singijeon or the Divine Weapon a reality.
In the final battle, severely outnumbered Korean forces (less than 100 men) successfully defeat the thousands of Ming Chinese in armed combat with spears, bombs, and several finished Singijeon via several hwachas. Thousands of Ming Chinese foot soldiers are killed as the arrows in the Singijeon are launched. More are killed with the gunpowder packed inside the arrows (standard Singeijeons). Those in the Ming Chinese army who remained are finished off with the large model Singijeons (대신기전, Grand Singijeon), except one of the nobles who prefers peace over warfare.

Cast
Jung Jae-young ... Seol-joo
Han Eun-jung ... Hong-ri
Heo Joon-ho ... Chang-kang
Ahn Sung-ki ... King Sejong
Jeong Seong-mo ... Sa Ma-soon
Kim Myeong-soo ... Ggya Oh-ryung
Lee Do-kyeong ... Hong-man
Do Yi-seong ... In-ha
Ryu Hyun-kyung ... Bang-wook
Seo Joo-seong ... Moo-saeng
Cha Soon-bae ... Ming1

Release
The Divine Weapon was released in South Korea on 4 September 2008, topping the box office on its opening weekend with 630,257 admissions. It led the box office for a further two weeks, and as of 9 November had accumulated a total of 3,749,611 admissions. As of 16 November, the film had grossed a total of US$19,991,573. making it the seventh most popular domestic film that year.

Reception
The film was heavily criticized by Chinese audiences for historical inaccuracies and revisionism. For example, the movie depicted Ming China and Joseon Korea in conflict around 1448, however in reality two nations never fought and were in fact allies in resisting Japanese invasion. The depicted the tribute of young girls occurred under the Mongol-led Yuan dynasty (1271-1368). The movie also suggested that the Ming dynasty tried to steal multiple rocket carts blueprints from Korea, despite in reality China developed rocket arrows and rocket carts that predates Korean efforts.

Awards and nominations
2008 Blue Dragon Film AwardsNomination - Best Director - Kim Yoo-jin
Nomination - Best Art Direction - Min Eon-ok
Nomination - Best New Actress - Han Eun-jung2008 Korean Film AwardsNomination - Best Actor - Jung Jae-young
Nomination - Best Sound - Oh Se-jin2009 Fajr International Film Festival, "World Panorama" sectionBest Technical and Artistic Achievement2009 Grand Bell AwardsBest Film
Best Editing - Kim Hyeon
Best Sound - Oh Se-jin
Nomination - Best Actor - Jung Jae-young
Nomination - Best Lighting - Im Jae-young
Nomination - Best Visual Effects - Jeong Seong-jin, Han Young-woo
Nomination - Best Planning - Lee Young-in

References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
The Divine Weapon at IMDb
The Divine Weapon at the Korean Movie Database
The Divine Weapon at HanCinema