Choi Min-soo (born March 27, 1962) is a South Korean actor. He is known as one of the most acclaimed actors in South Korea.

Life and career
Choi's family has been active in acting, and singing. Choi is the son of Choi Moo-ryong, a popular actor of the 1960s and 1970s, and Kang Hyo-shil, an actress. His maternal grandmother is Jeon Ok, referred to as 'Queen of Tears' for her excellence at acting for tragic dramas. His grandfather is Kang Hong-shik, an actor, a film director and singer active during the Japanese occupation period. Kang Hong-sik and Jeon Ok were the first married couple in Korean entertainment history. Kang went over to North Korea along with his daughter Kang Hyo-son who later became a famous actress of North Korea. Kang Hong-shik was honored as "Merited artist" as well.Choi graduated from Lila Elementary School, Seongdong Middle School, Dongbuk High School and Seoul Arts College. Choi debuted to the film industry in 1985 with Son of God, a film adapted from Park Bong-seong's same titled manhwa.Choi has three sisters and one half sister from his father's second marriage with Kim Ji-mee, and one little half brother and half sister from his father's other marriage.Choi met his wife June Elizabeth Kang from an international Miss Korea Beauty Pageant in 1993 where Kang was being represented as Miss Canada. Choi proposed to Kang after a three-hour meeting and they were married June 18, 1994 in Seoul. They have two children, Christian (born 1996) and Benjamin (born 2001).

Controversies
Choi took a voluntary leave from acting following a scandal in 2008. He was involved in an assault case in April 2008 after a street-side argument ended in violence. An elderly man saw Choi cursing at another driver and rebuked him. The situation escalated and Choi assaulted the man. The actor attempted to drive away, but the man grabbed onto the hood of the car and refused to let go. Choi was let go by police when the victim declined to press charges, but the public reaction was swift and condemning. The actor apologized profusely for his behavior and swore to live in exile in the mountains, away from his wife and children, for a year.In 2015, Choi punched the main production director of the KBS variety show, A Look At Myself. Choi later withdrew from the program.In 2019, Choi was sentenced to two years probation for retaliatory driving due to an incident which took place on September 17, 2018. Both Choi and the prosecution have appealed the sentence.

Filmography
Film
*Note; the whole list is referenced.

Television
Ambassador
Busan Metropolitan City Honorary Firefighter
E2B PR Manager
Public Relations Ambassador of the National Promotion Committee for the Goguryeo History Museum
Public Relations Ambassador of Korean Kendo Association
Ministry of Environment 2nd Environmental PR Delegation

Awards
*Note; the whole list is referenced.

References
External links
Choi Min-soo at the Korean Movie Database
Choi Min-soo at IMDb