Jang Ok-jung, Living by Love (Korean: 장옥정, 사랑에 살다; RR: Jang Ok-jeong, Sarang-e salda; MR: Chang Ok-chŏng, Sarang-e salda) is a 2013 South Korean historical television series, starring Kim Tae-hee, Yoo Ah-in, Hong Soo-hyun and Jae Hee. Based on the 2008 novel by Choi Jung-mi, it is a reinterpretation of Jang Hui-bin's life, as a woman involved in fashion design and cosmetics-making in the Joseon Dynasty.It aired on SBS from April 8 to June 25, 2013, on Mondays and Tuesdays at 21:55 for 24 episodes.

Cast
Main
Kim Tae-hee as Jang Ok-jung, later the concubine, Jang Hui-binKang Min-ah as young Jang Ok-jung
Yoo Ah-in as Lee Soon, later King SukjongChae Sang-woo as young Lee Soon
Hong Soo-hyun as Queen Inhyeon
Jae Hee as Hyun Chi-sooBaek Su-ho as young Hyun Chi-soo
Lee Sang-yeob as Lee Hoon, later Prince Dongpyeong
Kwak Dong-yeon as young Lee Hoon
Han Seung-yeon as Choi Sui Chee Musuri, later Choi Suk-bin

Supporting
Production
The series was written by Choi Jung-mi, based on her 2008 novel Jang Hui-bin, Living by Love. It was directed by Boo Sung-chul, who previously helmed the SBS dramas My Girlfriend is a Gumiho (2010) and Star's Lover (2009).
Yoo Ah-in's casting was announced on January 22, 2013. This is his third historical drama following Strongest Chil Woo in 2008 and Sungkyunkwan Scandal in 2010, both on KBS. The producers took into consideration the historical fact that Sukjong was younger than Jang Ok-jung, hence it made sense to cast Yoo who is five years younger than Kim Tae-hee. Yoo said "I didn't want to miss the chance to play this character. There are analogies between the character and me, so I have an affinity with the role even though everyone tried to dissuade me from taking it."The cast and production attended their first script reading on February 1, 2013.

Ratings
In the tables below, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.

Awards and nominations
International broadcast
References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
Jang Ok-jung, Living by Love at HanCinema
Jang Ok-jung, Living by Love at IMDb