Park Geun-hyung (born June 7, 1940) is a South Korean actor. His career in film, television and theater has spanned over five decades.

Career
He was born in Suseong-ri, Jeongju-eup, Jeongeup-gun, Jeollabuk-do during the Japanese colonial period in 1940 (currently, Suseong-dong, Jeongeup-si). After graduating from middle school, he studied at Whimoon High School in Seoul. He was active in the theater department at Whimoon High School. Then He majored in theater and film at Seorabeol Arts College (predecessor of Chung-Ang University College of Arts), and became a member of the National Theater Company after graduation. Park debuted in 1963 KBS 3rd public recruitment talent.Park was originally one of the leading actors of the National Theatre in the 1960s. He joined the National Theatre Company in 1964 and was active until 1967. He played the role of Geum Oh-bong in the play 'The Movement of Thread and Needle' at the People's Theatre in 1968. He won the Dong-A Theater Award for Best Actor.
He debuted on the screen in 1969 with the movie '7 People in the Basement', which is regarded as a masterpiece by director Lee Seong-gu.  in 1974 he won the Grand Bell Award for Best Actor in the movie 'Painter Lee Joong-seop'.

Variety Show
In 2013, cable channel tvN launched the travel-reality show Grandpas Over Flowers (the title parodies the manga Boys Over Flowers). It marked producer Na Young-seok's first variety show since leaving KBS, where he was best known for creating the first season of hit variety show 2 Days & 1 Night. Defying a youth-centered entertainment industry, the hit show stars four veteran actors in their 70s, Lee Soon-jae, Shin Goo and Baek Il-seob, with their porter actor Lee Seo-jin as they go on a backpacking tour of France, Taiwan and Spain.The first season aired from July 5 to August 16, 2013 with seven episodes. It was filmed in Paris, Strasbourg, Bern, and Lucerne. It was immediately followed by the airing of the second season from August 23 to September 20, 2013. The five episodes were filmed in Taiwan, with an additional two-episode special featuring unaired footage on September 27 and October 4, 2013. The third season aired from March 7 to May 2, 2014 with eight episodes. It was filmed in Spain, specifically the cities of Barcelona, Granada, Seville, Ronda, and Madrid. Shin Goo also went on a solo trip to Lisbon. The fourth season aired from March 27 to May 8, 2015 with seven episodes. It was filmed in Dubai and Greece, with Choi Ji-woo joining as a second travel guide and assistant.After a few years' break, a fifth season titled Grandpa Over Flowers Returns aired from June 29 to August 24, 2018 with nine episodes. Actor Kim Yong-gun joined the cast for the trip filmed in Germany, Czech Republic and Austria.

Filmography
Film
Television series
Web series
Variety show
Music video
Theater
Awards
Award and nominations
State honors
Notes
References
External links
Park Geun-hyung at the Korean Movie Database
Park Geun-hyung at IMDb
Park Geun-hyung at HanCinema