Park Yung-hyo or Park Yeong-hyo (Korean: 박영효; Hanja: 朴泳孝; 12 June 1861 – 21 September 1939) was a Korean politician from the Joseon Dynasty, an enlightenment activist, diplomat, and pro-Japanese collaborator. He was one of the organizers of the Gapsin Coup of 1884, in which progressive political elements attempted to overthrow the conservative Korean government. He become Prince Consort Geumneung through his marriage to Princess Yeonghye, King Cheoljong's daughter.

Early life and education
Park Yung-hyo was born in Suwon, south of Hanseong. He was the third son of Park Won-yang and his mother was Lady Yi of the Jeonui Yi clan. By birth, he also had a distant connection with the Royal Family: his 7-great-grandfather was Park Se-gyo (박세교; 朴世橋; 1611–1663), the only son of King Seonjo's 5th daughter, Princess Jeongan (정안 옹주; 1590–1660), and Park Mi, Prince Consort Geumyang (박미 금양위; 朴瀰 錦陽尉; 1592–1645).
On April 3, 1872, he was chosen to be the spouse of Princess Yeonghye, the only living daughter of King Cheoljong, the 25th King of the Joseon Dynasty. However, the princess passed away just three months after their wedding.
Together with Kim Ok-gyun, Park was a strong supporter of the Dongnipdang, or “Enlightenment Party”, which sought to reform the government, economy, and military by incorporating Western technology and methodology, so that Korea would become stable enough to withstand increasing foreign encroachment. He accompanied Kim on his visit to Tokyo, meeting with various influential Japanese politicians, including Fukuzawa Yukichi.

Career
He is credited with creating the first Korean national flag, in 1882.

Gapsin Coup
Park was one of the leaders of the 1884 Gapsin Coup that attempted to overthrow the government and institute Western-style reforms. The coup attempt lasted only three days before its suppression by Chinese troops. He was forced to flee to Japan, where he initially stayed with Fukuzawa Yukichi, before moving on to Kobe.

Subsequent career
Following the Japanese Occupation of Gyeongbokgung Palace, Park returned to Korea with some of his entourages such as Lee Kyu-wan, and Ryu Hyeok-ro. Arriving Seoul on 23 August 1894, Park requested a discursive authority to reform the country to Gojong. But because public ideas about reforms were negative due to Gapsin Coup, Park was not able to gain great political power, rather he should flee to Incheon. Following the Japanese victory of Battle of Pyongyang, the Korean public started to regard Japan as the new leading power of Asia. Finally on 9 December, Park and his entourage who just returned from Japan gained political independence. Furthermore, Park successfully managed the coup of Heungseon Daewongun who was trying to make Yi Jun-yong the king. Park gained the trust of Gojong and the Japanese minister. The Second Kim Hong-jip cabinet was established, and Park was appointed as Minister of Interior. Even though Park was not the prime minister but gained great authority that equals to that of prime minister. Park did not enjoy being a puppet of Japan; therefore, he started to build his own political basements by appointing Lee Kyu-wan as the commander of police and Ryu Hyeok-ro as the Director of Artillery. However, Park once asked Gojong to replace his bodyguards with Hunryeondae, which was a Japanese-influenced organization. This proposal made the king furious; the Min regime identified Park as an enemy, enforcing Park to flee to Japan again. After the removal of Park, the new cabinet became pro-American, Russian, and English, consisting of Bak Jeongyang, Ye Wanyong, Yi Bum-jin, and Min Young-hwan.Following the Japan-Korea Treaty of 1910, in which Korea was annexed to the Empire of Japan, Park was awarded with the kazoku title of marquess (koshaku) in the Japanese peerage, and a seat in the House of Peers in the Diet of Japan. He served as Director of the Bank of Korea in 1918, Chairman of the Korean Economic Association in 1919, first president of The Dong-a Ilbo newspaper in 1920, president of the Kyungbang Corporation, chairman of the Korea Industrialization Bank in 1921, and advisor to the Government-General of Korea’s Central Institute.

Family
Park didn’t remarry due to the connections he gained through his marriage to Princess Yeonghye. 
Thus having him to take in 3 concubines which produced 3 illegitimate children; 1 daughter, Park Myo-ok (박묘옥), and 2 sons, Park Jin-seo (박진서, 朴振緖; 1893 - ?) and Park Il-seo or Park Gil-seo (박일서/길서, 朴日緖/吉緖; 1897 - 1931). It is unknown who is the mother to the children but among Park's granddaughters was Park Chan-ju (박찬주, 朴贊珠; 11 December 1914 – 13 July 1995), who was married to Prince Yi U (이우, 李鍝; 15 August 1912 - 7 August 1945), and was the mother of Yi Cheong (이청, 李淸) (born 23 April 1936). 
Park Chan-ju’s younger brother, Park Chan-beom (박찬범, 朴贊汎; 17 August 1917 - 23 November 1986) eventually married, and later divorced, Yi Kang’s third illegitimate daughter, Yi Hae-chun (이해춘; 1921 - 2009), and had one son Park Hyeong-woo (박형우, 朴亨雨; 1937 - 2012).

Writings
Sahwa giryak (사화기략, 使和記略)

See also
Ye Wanyong
Bak Jesun
Yun Chi-ho

References
External links

Park Young-hyo:Daum (in Korean)
Park Young-hyo:Korean historical People's Information (in Korean)
Park Young-hyo:navercast (in Korean)
Park Young-hyo:naver
Park Young-hyo:nate