Uljin County (Uljin-gun; Korean: 울진군) is a county in North Gyeongsang Province, South Korea. Before 1963, Uljin was in Gangwon Province.
It borders the Sea of Japan in the east, Bonghwa-gun and Yeongyang-gun in the west, Yeongdeok-gun in the south, and Samcheok-si, Gangwon-do in the north. It is located at 129°04'-129°29' east longitude and 36°38'-37°06' north latitude. The area is 989.43 square kilometers, and the population is 51,885 (as of 2015). There are 2 eups, 8 myeons, and 195 administrative districts (79 Beopjeong-ri). The county office is located in Eupnae-ri, Uljin-eup, Uljin-gun, Gyeongsangbuk-do.

Administrative divisions
Uljin County is divided into 2 eup and 8 myeon.

Culture and sightseeing
Festivals
Uljin's festivals reflect the county's agricultural and maritime industry.
In 2005 and 2009 for three weeks, Uljin hosted the Uljin Organic Food Exhibition (울진세계친환경농업엑스포) in Uljin's Expo Park. The expo features global representatives of the organic food industry, interactive activities, live music, and food.  The next expo is slated for July 2013.

Uljin Snow Crab Promotion Exhibition Center

Museums
Freshwater Fish Museum
Hupo-ri Neolithic Historic Museum
Wonjaryeok Museum
Hyangam Museum of Art
Bongpyeong Silla Stele in Uljin

Parks
Gusugok Recreational Forest
Nagok ocean fishing park
Expo Park
Tonggosan Recreational Forest
Geumgang Pine Forest of Uljin

Villages
Giseongri Fishing and Recreation Village
Nagok1ri Fishing and Recreation Village
Ssangjeolli Green Village
Wangpi Georigo Village

Experiences
Geoil 1ri Fishing Village Experiences
Deokgu Spa
Sung Ryu Park Hot Spring
Uljin Science Experience
'Into The Storm' Drama Set
Baegam Hot Springs Special Tourist Zone
Geumgangsong Ecorium
Uljin Guemgangsong Culture Center
Hanhwa Condominium
Camphorse
Ul-Jin Yacht School
Ul-jin Ocean Leports Center

Other important spots
Seongnyugul Cave
Sinsun Valley

Architecture
Historical
Buryeongsa Temple
Mangyangjeong Pavilion
Wolsongjeong Pavilion

Modern
Deunggisan Suspension Bridge

Economy
The Uljin Nuclear Power Plant, one of four nuclear power plants in South Korea, is located in Bugu. The plant currently has six reactors and is a top source of jobs for the county and region.

Education
High schools
Hupo High School
Jukbyeon High School
Pyeonghae Gongeob High School
Pyeonghae Jeongbo High School
Uljin High School

Middle schools
Bugu Middle School
Giseong Middle School
Hupo Middle School
Jukbyeon Middle School
Maewha Middle School
Onjeong Middle School
Pyeonghae Middle School
Pyeonghae Girl's Middle School
Uljin Middle School

Elementary schools
Bugu Elementary School
Giseong Elementary School
Hupo Elementary School
Hupo Dongbu Elementary School
Jukbyeon Elementary School
Maewha Elementary School
Noeum Elementary School
Onjeong Elementary School
Pyeonghae Elementary School
Uljin Elementary School
Uljin Nambu Elementary School
Sadong Elementary School
Samgeun Elementary School
Wolsong Elementary School

Climate
Uljin has a cooler version of a humid subtropical climate (Köppen: Cfa).

Sister cities
Goyang, South Korea
 Yangcheon-gu, South Korea
 Seocho-gu, South Korea
 Suseong-gu, South Korea
 Dong-gu, Busan, South Korea
 Omaezaki, Shizuoka Prefecture, Japan

References
External links
County government website