Blades of Blood (Korean: 구름 을 벗어난 달처럼; RR: Gureumeul Beoseonan Dalcheoreom; lit. "Like the Moon Escaping from the Clouds") is a 2010 South Korean action drama film directed by Lee Joon-ik. The film is based on Park Heung-yong's graphic novel Like the Moon Escaping from the Clouds.

Plot
In the late 16th century, the kingdom of Joseon is thrown into chaos by the threat of a Japanese invasion. Lee Mong-hak (Cha Seung-won), an illegitimate offspring from a cadet family of the ruling dynasty, and legendary blind swordsman Hwang Jeong-hak (Hwang Jung-min) were once allies who dreamed of stamping out the Japanese invasion, social inequality and corruption, and creating a better world. Persecuted by the court, Lee forms a rebel army in hopes of overthrowing the inept king and taking the throne himself. Lee is willing to kill recklessly and betray former comrades to forge his bloody path to the palace. Kyeon-ja is the bastard child of a family killed by Mong-hak.  Hwang Jeong-hak saves him from an injury caused by Mong-hak.  Together the two search for Mong-hak in order to confront and kill him.
After Mong-hak's Great Alliance rebel army defeat a large government military force, Hwang Jeong-hak confronts him alone.  After a lengthy battle, Mong-hak's skill proves too much and the blind swordsman falls. Kyeon-ja, finding Jeong-hak dead, decides to head to Seoul, the capital of Joseon and final destination of Mong-hak. While, Mong-hak, despite finding out that Japanese forces are approaching and will slaughter and pillage every villagers and settlements they encounter, orders the Great Alliance army to press on towards to Seoul, abandoning the commoners who gathered to rebel camp seeking protection from invading forces. The rebels take Seoul, but are confused and frustrated as the king has already abandoned the capital and the palace lies forlorn. Kyeon-ja, who has arrived at the palace before the rebels came, confronts Mong-hak as he approaches the throne pavilion. A few moments later the Japanese army arrives and begins massacring the rebel army with their arquebuses. Kyeon-ja succeeds in killing Mong-hak then dies at the hands of the Japanese army.

Cast
Production
Actor Hwang Jung-min expressed his difficulty playing a blind character in the film. Hwang went to schools for blind people to observe their movements but stated that "it still wasn't an easy role to play".

Release
Blades of Blood premiered on April 29, 2010, in South Korea. It opened at number two in the box office, grossing US$2,675,391 on 603 screens. In total the film received 1,389,295 admissions nationwide with a domestic gross of US$8,217,720.The film had its international premiere at New York Asian Film Festival on July 8, 2010, where it was the festival's closing film. Lee Joon-ik won the Jury Award for Best Director at the Fantasia Festival in Montreal Canada. Blades of Blood was one of six films considered as Korea's submission for the foreign-language Oscar award.

Reception
Film Business Asia gave the film a rating of seven out of ten, praising action and characters calling it a "cut above most Korean swordplay dramas." Variety gave the film a mixed review, stating that "political infighting on the eve of a Japanese invasion is told with unnecessarily broad, imagistic strokes that let character-generated conflicts slip between the blades" as well as that "the film easily outdoes numerous gimmicky f/x extravaganzas, explaining its early pickup by several European and Asian distribs."

References
External links
Official website
Blades of Blood at Naver
Blades of Blood at IMDb
Blades of Blood at the Korean Movie Database
Blades of Blood at HanCinema