Joseon Attorney (Korean: 조선변호사) is a 2023 South Korean television series starring Woo Do-hwan, Bona, and Cha Hak-yeon. It is based on webtoon with the same name by writer Jung Ho Rak and illustrator Shim Jae Yong, which was serialized on Bomtoon. It aired from March 31 to May 5, 2023 on MBC TV's Fridays and Saturdays at 21:50 (KST) time slot. It is also available for streaming on Wavve in South Korea, and on Kocowa and Viki in selected regions.

Synopsis
The series is about a foreign branch (attorney) who takes revenge on the enemy who killed his parents through trial.

Cast
Main
Woo Do-hwan as Kang Han-soo: a foreign branch (attorney) with demonic charm.
Bona as Lee Yeon-joo: a princess who sincerely cares about the country and its people. She is a woman of misfortune who faces an unattainable love while hiding her identity.Lee Go-eun as young Lee Yeon-joo
Cha Hak-yeon as Yoo Ji-sun: Yeon-joo's fiancé, who is a judge of Hanseongbu and the third generation of leaders from the most prestigious family in Joseon.

Supporting
People in the Palace
Song Geon-hee as Seongjong of Joseon / Lee Hyul (personal name): The king of Joseon who dreams of strengthening his royal authority and establishing a state of law.
Kim Ae-ran as Grand Queen Dowager Jaseong: Lee Hyul's grandmother.
Han Sang-jo as Eunuch Go: Lee Hyul's right-hand man.

Ministers of Government
Chun Ho-jin as Minister of Military Taxation Yoo Je-se: Ji-sun's father who has absolute power who monopolizes wealth and power.
Choi Moo-sung as Choo Young-woo: the Right Chamchan
Lee Jae-woon as Won Dae-han: the Left Chamchan
Choi Byung-mo as Im Sang-ho: the Right State Councilor
Nam Kyung-eup as Choi Soo-yong: the Left State Councilor

People around Kang Han-soo
Lee Kyu-sung as Dong-chi: Han-soo's best friend and colleague, who has crush on Kang Eun-soo for a long time.
Joo Ah as O-wol: a new gisaeng at Wolharu.
Yoo Ye-bin as Jong-hyang: a gisaeng at Wolharu.
Noh Haeng-ha as Myung-wol: a gisaeng at Wolharu.
Han So-eun as Kang Eun-soo: Han-soo's younger sister.
Kim Jong-tae as Kang Eon-jik: Han-soo's father.
Min Ji-ah as Mrs. Lee: Han-soo's mother.

People around Lee Yeon-joo
Shin Dong-mi as Lady Hong: Yeon-joo's nanny and the owner of Sowongak guesthouse.
Lee Si-hoo as Choi Yoon: Lady Hong's nephew.
Kim Do-yeon as Chef Baek: current chef in Sowongak.
Han Min as the former king: Yeon-joo's father and Lee Hyul's uncle.

People around Yoo Ji-sun
Kang Hyun-oh as Kim Ji-ho: Ji-sun's bodyguard.

Others
Lee Jun-hyeok as Master Jang: a former police officer.
Hong Wan-pyo as Jo Cheol-joo: Dae-bang's loyal limbs.
Lee Chan-jong as Chu-sal: Dae-bang's limbs.

Extended
Lee Tae-gum as Mr. Lee: a public officer.
Hwang Man-ik as Heo Pan-yoon: the highest official of Hanseongbu.
Jung Ah-mi as Park Yeo-in: an old woman with a suspicious secret.
Jo Hee-bong as Park Je-soo: a pottery maker during the Joseon Dynasty who held power.

Special appearances
Bae Hae-sun as Lady Yeon
Kwon Ah-reum as Yeong-sil

Viewership
Notes
References
External links
Official website  (in Korean)
Joseon Attorney at HanCinema
Joseon Attorney at IMDb 
Joseon Attorney: A Morality at MBC Global Media