Queen Hyogong of the Pyeongchang Yi clan (Korean: 효공왕후 이씨; Hanja: 孝恭王后 李氏) was the wife Yi Ansa and mother of Yi Haengni, making her became great-grandmother to Yi Jachun who was the father of Yi Seonggye, Joseon dynasty's founder. Among the Joseon queens, she was the only one who came from the Yi clan and honoured as Hyo-Bi (효비, 孝妃; "the filial piety queen") at first.

Biography
One of her ancestors was Yi Gwang, Prince Baekoh (이광 백오군) from Pyeongchang-gun, Gangwon-do. Because King Sejong disallowed a man and woman from the same clan to marry and disallowed any woman with the surname Yi, she became the only Joseon Queen Consort whom came from a Yi clan (이씨, 李氏) in Joseon history. With Mokjo, she had six sons.In 28 July 1392, when Taejo established a new dynasty, she was granted the royal title Hyo-bi (효비, 孝妃; literally: Consort Hyo) along with her husband whom was granted the title King Mok (목왕, 穆王). Later on 22 April 1411, King Taejong, gave her a posthumous name Queen Hyogong (효공왕후, 孝恭王后). Her tomb was located in Alleung, Neung-ri, Gapyeong-myeon, Siheung-gun, Hamgyeongnam-do along with her husband.

Family
Father: Yi Gong-suk (이공숙)
Grandfather: Yi Seong-ro (이성로)
Grandmother: Lady, of the Cheongju Han clan (부인 청주한씨); daughter of Han Hyeok (한혁).
Mother: Princess Consort Dolsan of the Jeong clan (돌산군부인 정씨)
Grandfather: Jeong Seok (정석, 鄭碩)
Grandmother: Lady, of the Samcheok Gim clan (부인 삼척김씨); daughter of Kim In-gwe (김인궤).
Older brother: Yi Won (이원, 李元)
Sister: Lady Yi (이씨) – married Yi Dang-ryeol (이당렬, 李唐烈).
Sister: Lady Yi (이씨)
Husband: Yi An-sa (이안사, d. 1274)
Father-in-law: Yi Yang-mu (이양무, d. 1231)
Mother-in-law: Lady, of the Samcheok Yi clan (부인 삼척이씨)
Son(s):Yi Eo-seon, Grand Prince Ancheon (이어선 안천대군, d. 1274) – married the daughter of Gim Nam-ok (김남옥) from the Gimhae Gim clan.
Yi Jin, Grand Prince Anwon (이진 안원대군) – married Princess Consort Pyeongsan of the Pyeongsan Sin clan (평산부부인 평산 신씨).
Yi Jeong, Grand Prince Anpung (이정 안풍대군)
Yi Haeng-ri, Ikjo of Joseon (이행리 조선 익조) – married Queen Jeongsuk of the Yeongheung Choe clan (정숙왕후 최씨).
Yi Mae-bul, Grand Prince Anchang (이매불 안창대군)
Yi Gu-su, Grand Prince Anheung (이구수 안흥대군) – married a woman from the Cheongju Han clan.


== References ==