The Great Seer (Korean: 대풍수; Hanja: 大風水; RR: Dae Pung Su, also known as The Great Geomancer) is a 2012 South Korean historical television series, starring Ji Sung, Ji Jin-hee, Song Chang-eui, Kim So-yeon and Lee Yoon-ji. Set during the turbulent decline of Goryeo, it is about practicers of divination and the power that they hold over the fate of the country. It aired on SBS from October 10, 2012 to February 7, 2013 on for 35 episodes.

Plot
The Great Seer begins during the reign of King Gongmin (Ryu Tae-joon). But despite being about seers, geomancers, divinators and the like, this drama is less about the fantasy and more about the political movers and shakers — people who had the power to advise, and therefore control, kings. Yi Seong-gye (Ji Jin-hee) is the general who led the overthrow of Goryeo and established the Joseon Dynasty, becoming its first king.
Mok Ji-sang (Ji Sung) is a gifted seer/geomancer, born with the ability to see into people's pasts and futures. There are those who believe falsely that he has dark supernatural powers, thinking him possessed by ghosts. When he comes of age in the late Goryeo era, he becomes a scholar of divination, and a reader of geography, faces, and the like to tell fortunes — an area with much influence at the time. He eventually becomes a "king-maker," who holds the key to a major political shift in the overthrow of Goryeo and the rise of Joseon when he backs General Yi and effectively shapes the future of Korea as we know it.
Lee Jung-geun (Song Chang-eui) is General Yi's other advisor and Ji-sang's rival. Hae-in (Kim So-yeon) is a healer whose destiny is tied to General Yi, but she falls in love with the seer. Ban-ya (Lee Yoon-ji) is a woman who was sold off as a gisaeng at a young age, but becomes a concubine to King Gongmin's advisor, and bears a son. King Gongmin takes in that son as his, and the boy becomes Woo of Goryeo (Lee Tae-ri) — the king that General Yi dethrones in a coup d'état.

Cast
Original soundtrack
"Breaking Fate" - Park Gyu-ri of Kara
"Flower" (kids version) - Shin Ye-rim
"Flower" (adult version) - Yo Ar
"Tears Flow" - Min Kyu
"Just Once" - Kyuhyun of Super Junior
"The Path to the Sky" - Chi Yeol
"With You Being the Only Reason" - Ock Joo-hyun

Promotions
To promote the series cast members Ji Jin-hee, Ji Sung and Song Chang-eui guest starred on the SBS Good Sunday variety show Running Man on episodes 116 and 117, which aired on October 21 and 28, 2012, along with Suzy of miss A and Yubin of Wonder Girls.

Ratings
Notes
References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
The Great Seer at HanCinema