The Royal Gambler (Korean: 대박; Hanja: 大撲; RR: Daebak; lit. Jackpot) is a South Korean historical drama starring Jang Keun-suk, Yeo Jin-goo, Jun Kwang-ryul, Choi Min-soo, Yoon Jin-seo, and Lim Ji-yeon. It replaced Six Flying Dragons and aired on SBS on Mondays and Tuesdays at 22:00 (KST) from March 28, 2016, to June 14, 2016, for 24 episodes.

Plot
This drama is about a prince who is forced to live as a commoner and uses his gambling skills to take revenge on the King. Dae-Gil (Jang Geun-suk) and King Yeongjo (Yeo Jin-goo) enter a match. Dae-Gil bets his life and King Yeongjo bets the entire Kingdom of Joseon on the outcome. Dae-Gil is the best gambler in the Joseon era. He holds deep resentment inside, but is also cool on the exterior. King Yeongjo is a man who never lowers his head without a convincing reason. Meanwhile, Dam-Seo (Lim Ji-yeon) exists solely to take revenge upon king.
It is a fictionalised account of events leading to the accession of the throne by King Yeongjo, and also a fictionalised account of the 1728 Musin Rebellion.

Cast
Main cast
Jang Geun-suk as Baek Dae-gil
Yeo Jin-goo as Prince Yeoning (King Yeongjo)
Jun Kwang-ryul as Lee In-jwa
Choi Min-soo as King Sukjong
Yoon Jin-seo as Consort Suk
Lim Ji-yeon as Dam-seo
Hyun Woo as Yoon (King Gyeongjong)

Supporting cast
Im Hyun-sik as Nam Dokkebi
Ahn Gil-kang as Kim Che-gun
Song Jong-ho as Kim Yi-soo
Ji Il-joo as Moo-myung
Han Jung-soo as Hwang Jin-gi
Han Ki-woong as Sa Woon
Han Ki-won as Sa Mo
Oh Yeon-ah as Jang Ok-jung
Yoon Ji-hye as Hong-Mae
Lee Moon-sik as Baek Man-geum
Jeon Soo-jin as Hwanggoo Mom
Kim Yoo-chul as Daegari
Jun Jae-hyung as Gamoolchi
Baek Seung-hyeon as Jang Hee-jae (Jang Ok-jung's brother)
Heo Tae-hee as Sang-gil (Yeongjo's bodyguard)
Lee Ga-hyun as Hwa-jin
Cha Soon-bae as Jo Tae-gu
Na Jae-woong as Choi Seok-hang
Kim Ga-eun as Gye Sul-im
Kim Sung-oh as Hwanghae-do's Gaejakdoo
Hong Ah-reum as Yeon Hwa

Ratings
In the table below, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.

Original soundtrack
OST Part 1
OST Part 2
OST Part 3
OST Part 4
International broadcast
In the United States, the drama airs in the Los Angeles DMA free, over-the-air on LA 18 KSCI-TV (channel 18) with English subtitles, Mon-Tue 9:15PM, from April 25 to July 12, 2016.

Awards and nominations
References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
The Royal Gambler at HanCinema