Queen Wongyeong (원경왕후 민씨; 6 August 1365 – 27 August 1420) of the Yeoheung Min clan, was the primary wife of Taejong of Joseon, and the mother of Sejong the Great.
She was queen consort of Joseon from 1400, and was honored as Queen Jeong (정비) until her husband became King Emeritus of Joseon in 1418 after which she was honoured as Queen Dowager Hudeok (후덕왕대비).

Biography
Early life
Lady Min was born on 6 August 1365, during King Gongmin of Goryeo’s 14th year of reign, as the third daughter and child within eight siblings, of Min Je from the Yeoheung Min clan and his first wife, Lady Song of the Yeosan Song clan. Her hometown was Kaegyeong or Songgyeong, Cheoldong (modern-day Kaeseong, North Korea). 
She became an ascendant through her grandfather’s older brother who eventually became the 12th great-grandfather to Queen Inhyeon, 16th great-grandfather to Princess Consort Min (Heungseon Daewongun’s mother), the 17th great-grandfather to Grand Internal Princess Consort Sunmok (Heungseon Daewongun’s wife) and Empress Myeongseong, and the 18th great-grandfather to Empress Sunmyeong. 
She was a first cousin once removed to Royal Noble Consort Hui-bi of the Paepyeong Yun clan, a Consort of King Chunghye of Goryeo. As well as a fourth cousin twice removed of Queen Jeongan through her 5th great-grandfather’s brother.
Through her great-grandfather, Lady Min was also a first cousin thrice removed of Royal Noble Consort Myeong, the consort of her husband, King Taejong, and a first cousin four times removed of Crown Princess Consort Hwi, the consort of her grandson, King Munjong.
Through her mother, Lady was a fourth cousin once removed of Han Hwak, and fifth cousins with Queen Jangsun and Queen Gonghye.
She was later arranged to marry the fifth son of Yi Seong-gye and his first wife Lady Han of the Anbyeon Han clan, Yi Bang-won of the Jeonju Yi clan, in 1382 at the age of 17. Ten years later when the Joseon Dynasty was established in 1392 by her father-in-law, her husband was then given the royal title of Prince Jeongan; making her Princess Jeongnyeong (정녕옹주, 靖寧翁主) at the age of 27.

Involvement in royal politics
In 1394, the capital was established from Kaegyeong (modern-day Kaeseong) to Hanseong (modern-day Seoul). When the new dynasty was promulgated and officially brought into existence, Taejo brought up the issue of which son would be his successor. Although Taejo's fifth son by Queen Sinui, Yi Bang-won, had contributed most to assisting his father's rise to power, he harbored a profound hatred against two of his father's key allies in the court, the prime minister Jeong Do-jeon and Nam Eun.
In 1398, Jeong Do-jeon, who was enjoying great power at the time, enforced the Enforcement Breakdown Act and returned all the private soldiers and weapons to the state, but Lady Min had hid the weapons and private soldiers, that belonged to her family, in her house. Shortly after Taejo fell ill, the Min clan took advantage of this opportunity to give the weaponry and resources to Yi Bang-won to which Lady Min tried to encourage his coup.Yi Bang-won then rose up with his brother-in-laws, Min Mu-gu and Min Mu-jil, and immediately revolted and raided the palace, killing Jeong Do-jeon, his followers, and the two sons of the late Queen Sindeok, Grand Prince Uian and Yi Bang-beon.
This incident became known as the First Strife of Princes. Aghast at the fact that his sons were willing to kill each other for the crown, and psychologically exhausted from the death of his second wife, King Taejo immediately crowned his second son Yi Bang-gwa, later King Jeongjong, as the new ruler.
In early 1400, the Second Strife of Princes happened where Yi Bang-gan, Prince Hoean, the elder brother of the prince, launched an attack on Prince Jeongan. With Prince Jeongan, Lady Min and her family fought to bring down Prince Hoean and his supporters.On 4 March 1400, King Jeongjong pronounced his brother Yi Bang-won as heir presumptive and voluntarily abdicated. Which changed her royal title from Princess Jeongnyeong to Crown Princess Consort Jeong (정빈), and was eventually given the royal title of Queen Jeong (정비, 靜妃; Jeongbi meaning Serene Consort) on 10 January 1401. Thus becoming the Queen Consort of King Taejong of Joseon, the third king of Joseon. 
Because she was the wife of a king, her mother was given the royal title of "Grand Lady Samhanguk" (Hangul: 삼한국대부인, Hanja: 三韓國大夫人), but was later given an alternative title, “Internal Princess Consort Sunheung”. Her father was given the royal title of "Internal Prince Yeoheung" (Hangul: 여흥부원군, Hanja: 驪興府院君). 
Queen Jeong is described as smart and ambitious and with an astute political ambition, who frequently intervened in state affairs. She assisted her spouse in his way to the throne and convinced him to appoint their eldest son Yangnyeong as crown prince.  When he replaced their son as crown prince with his younger brother, Queen Jeong was enraged and her interference finally resulted in King Taejong executing her younger brothers in order to keep her and her family's ambition in check.

Exile and death of family
In 1406, Taejong had brought up the topic of abdicating but withdrew his statement later on. In the process, the Queen’s eldest younger brothers Min Mu-gu and Min Mu-jil had voiced that they were very pleased with the news of Taejong’s abdication, which caused the two men to be exiled to Jeju Island where they were later killed in 1410. In 1408, Min Je, the Queen’s father, who had a hard time coping with the exile of his sons, died that same year.
It was during these times that the Queen’s relationship with her husband was worsening with the concubines he brought to the palace due to alliances he formed with their clans. It worsened a lot more when Queen Jeong didn’t tell Taejong about the birth of their daughter, Princess Jeongseon, in 1404. It has been said that her attitude was why the king avoided her living quarters, but records do state that the royal couple did have a son in 1412 who later died that same year.
In 1416, the Queen’s remaining younger brothers, Min Mu-hyul and Min Mu-hoe, had stated that Crown Prince Je (later Grand Prince Yangnyeong), her eldest son, would take great care of their family as he and their family shared a close family relationship. Word spread and reached Taejong who saw it as a threat, which once again brought the brothers to be exiled and die by suicide poisoning. But it is also said that rumors had spread through the palace that Queen Jeong had abused Taejong's concubine, Royal Noble Hyo of the Cheongpung Kim clan, and her son, Prince Gyeongnyeong. In anger and retaliation, Taejong exiled Min Mu-hyeol and Min Mu-hoe nearby the sea breeze and hung them to death nearby rather than dethroning Queen Jeong from her position.

Later life
In 1418, her husband abdicated and gave the throne to their third son, Sejong of Joseon, but continued to rule with an iron fist for 3 years, deciding important matters and executing his son’s father-in-law Sim On in 1419, and two uncle-in-law’s in 1418.
Thus becoming Queen Dowager Hudeok while her husband became King Emeritus of Joseon. Her reign as Queen Dowager did not last long as it only lasted for 2 years from 9 September 1418 to her death; almost hitting the 3rd year mark.
Queen Dowager Hudeok, who made her husband king, but whose brothers were purged in return, died on 27 August 1420 at the age of 56 in Byeoljeon Hall, Sugang Palace. King Taejong outlived her by two years and they are buried together within Heonreung in Seoul, Seocho District.
It’s said that within the queens who were involved in Joseon Dynasty politics, Queen Wongyeong, along with Queen Munjeong, Queen Myeongseong, and Empress Myeongseong, was considered the most political, bold and broad-minded Queen.

Trivia
The Queen was a 6th great-granddaughter of Min Yeong-mo; who is the founder of the Yeoheung Min clan.
Queen Wongyeong’s grandfather’s older brother, Min Yu, eventually became the 12th great-grandfather of Queen Inhyeon and the 17th great-grandfather to Empress Myeongseong. Her grandfather’s younger sister, her grandaunt, was also the mother of Royal Consort Hui-bi of the Paepyeong Yun clan.
Royal Noble Consort Hyo of the Cheongpung Kim clan was originally one of Queen Jeong's servants at the Min household before she became a concubine for King Taejong, and Royal Consort Shin of the Yeongwol Shin clan was also originally one of Queen Jeong's retinue of assistant court ladies at the palace before becoming a concubine.

Family
Parent

Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
Min Ching-do (민칭도, 閔稱道)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
Min Se-hyeong (민세형, 閔世衡)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
Min Ui (민의, 閔懿)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
Min Yeong-mo (민영모, 閔令謨) (1115 - 1194)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandmother
Lady Bae (배씨)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
Min Gong-gyu (민공규, 閔公珪)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
Min In-gyun (민인균, 閔仁鈞)
Great-Great-Great-Grandfather
Min Hwang (민황, 閔滉)
Great-Great-Grandfather
Min Jong-yu (민종유, 閔宗儒) (1245 - 27 May 1324)
Great-Great-Grandmother
Lady Yu (유씨, 兪氏); third daughter of Yu Cheon-woo (유천우, 兪千遇; 1209 - 1276)
Great-Grandfather
Min Jeok (민적, 閔頔) (1269 - 4 March 1336)
Great-Grandmother
Lady Won of the Wonju Won clan (원주 원씨); third daughter of Won Gwan (원관, 元瓘; 1247 - 1324), Min Jeok’s second wife
Grandfather
Min Byeon, Prince Yeoheung (여흥군 민변, 閔忭) (? - May 1377)
Grandmother
Princess Consort Yangcheon of the Yangcheon Heo clan (양천현부인 양천 허씨, 陽川縣夫人 陽川 許氏); only daughter of Heo Baek (허백, 許伯; ? - 1357)
Father
Min Je, Duke Mundo, Internal Prince Yeoheung (민제 여흥부원군 문도공, 閔霽 文度公 驪興府院君) (1339 - 15 January 1408)Uncle - Min Ryang (민량, 閔亮) (? - 22 March 1408)
Aunt - Lady Min of the Yeoheung Min clan (여흥 민씨); second wife of Gwak Chu
Uncle - Gwak Chu (곽추, 郭樞) of the Cheongju Gwak clan (1338 - 1405)
Cousin - Gwak Woon (곽운, 郭惲)
Cousin - Lady Gwak of the Cheongju Gwak clan (청주 곽씨)
Cousin-in-law - Kim Yang-nam (김양남, 金揚南)
Cousin - Lady Gwak of the Cheongju Gwak clan (청주 곽씨)
Cousin-in-law - Kim Yuk (김육, 金育)
Cousin - Lady Gwak of the Cheongju Gwak clan (청주 곽씨)
Cousin-in-law - Bong Ahn-guk (봉안국, 奉安國) (1383 - ?)
Uncle - Min Gae (민개, 閔開) (1360 - 3 December 1396)
Mother
Princess Consort Samhanguk of the Yeosan Song clan (삼한국대부인 여산 송씨, 三韓國大夫人 礪山 宋氏) (1342 - 1424); Min Je’s first wife
Grandfather - Song Seon (송선, 宋璿)
Grandmother - Lady Ha of the Dalseong Ha clan (달성 하씨, 達城 河氏)
Stepmother - Lady Yi of the Yangseong Yi clan (양성 이씨, 陽城 李氏)Sibling(s)
2 older sisters, 4 younger brothers, and 1 younger sister:

Older sister — Lady Min (여흥 민씨) (1355 - ?)
Brother-in-law - Jo Pak (조박,趙璞) (1356 - 1408) of the Pyeongyang Jo clan (평양 조씨, 平壤 趙氏)Nephew - Jo Shin-eon (조신언, 趙愼言)
Niece - Lady Jo of the Pyeongyang Jo clan (평양 조씨, 平壤 趙氏)
Nephew-in-law - Park Sa-hyeon (박사현, 朴斯絢)
Older sister — Princess Consort Samhanguk of the Yeoheung Min clan (삼한국대부인 여흥 민씨) (1357 - ?)
Brother-in-law - Yi Cheon-woo, Prince Wansan (이천우 완산군, 李天祐 完山君) (1354 - 1417); King Taejong’s older half-cousin
Nephew — Yi Gwing, Prince Yeoyang (이굉 여양군, 李宏)
Niece-in-law - Lady Kim of the Gyeongju Kim clan (경주 김씨); Queen Jeongan’s younger sister
Nephew – Yi Wan, Prince Yeoseong (여성군 이완)
Nephew – Yi Seon, Prince Yeoheung (여흥군 이선)
Younger brother — Min Mu-gu, Prince Yeogang (여강군 민무구, 閔無咎) (1369 - 17 March 1410)
Sister-in-law - Lady Gwon of the Andong Gwon clan (안동 권씨); daughter of Gwon Hyeon (권현, 權玹)
Nephew — Min Chu (민추, 閔麤)
Unnamed grandnephew; son of a commoner concubine
Grandiece - Lady Min of the Yeoheung Min clan (여흥 민씨)
Grandnephew-in-law - Yi Jeon, Prince Musong (무송군 이전)
Younger brother — Min Mu-jil, Prince Yeoseong (여성군 민무질, 閔無疾) (1372 - 17 March 1410)
Sister-in-law – Lady Han of the Cheongju Han clan (정경부인 청주 한씨); daughter of Han Sang-hwan (한상환, 韓尙桓; ? - 1443)Nephew — Min Chok (민촉)
Grandnephew - Min Yeon-eun (민연은)
Grandnephew - Min Gi (민기)
Grandnephew - Min Hong (민홍)
Grandnephew - Min Seob (민섭)
Nephew — Min Sam (민삼)
Grandnephew - Min Hui-nyeom (민희념)
Great-Grandnephew - Min Byeon (민변)
Great-Grandnephew - Min Mu (민무)
Great-Great-Grandnephew - Min Eung-jeong (민응정)
Great-Great-Great-Grandnephew - Min Hyeob (민협)
Great-Great-Great-Great-Grandnephew - Min Jung-ui (민종의)
Nephew — Min Bun (민분)
Grandnephew - Min Oh (민오)
Niece — Lady Min (민씨)
Nephew-in-law - Kim Yeong-ryun (김영륜, 金永輪) of the Yean Kim clan (예안 김씨, 禮安 金氏)
Niece — Lady Min (민씨)Nephew-in-law - Yi Gin (이긴, 李緊) of the Yangseong Yi clan
Niece — Lady Min (민씨)
Nephew-in-law - Hong Woo-myeong (홍우명, 洪禹明) of the Namyang Hong clan
Younger brother — Min Mu-hyul, Prince Yeowon (여원군 민무휼, 閔無恤) (1373 - 13 January 1416)
Sister-in-law - Lady Yi of the Seongju Yi clan (성주 이씨, 星州 李氏)Niece — Lady Min (여흥 민씨)
Nephew-in-law - Song Jun (송준, 宋儁)
Niece - Lady Min (여흥 민씨)
Nephew-in-law - Kim Yang-jung (김양중, 金養中)
Niece — Lady Min (여흥 민씨) (1403 - ?)
Nephew-in-law - Sim Jun (심준, 沈濬) (1405 - 1448); Queen Soheon’s eldest younger brother
Grandnephew - Sim Mi (심미)
Grandnephew - Sim Chi (심치)
Grandniece-in-law - Lady Kim of the Suncheon Kim clan (순천 김씨)Great-Grandnephew - Sim Hyeong (심형, 沈浻)
Younger brother - Min Mu-hoe, Prince Yeosan (여산군 민무회, 閔無悔) (1375 - 13 January 1416)
Sister-in-law - Lady Kim (김씨); daughter of Kim Ik-dal (김익달, 金益達)
Nephew — Min Noe (주부 민뇌, 主簿 閔磊)
Niece-in-law - Lady Park of the Bannam Park clan (반남 박씨)
Niece — Lady Min (여흥 민씨)
Nephew-in-law - Kim Chi (김치, 金錙)
Younger sister — Lady Min (여흥 민씨)
Brother-in-law - No Han (노한, 盧閈) of the Gyoha No clan (교하 노씨, 交河 盧氏) (1376 - 1443)Nephew — No Mul-jae (노물재, 盧物栽) (1396 - 1446)
Niece-in-law - Lady Sim of the Cheongsong Sim clan (1399 - ?); Queen Soheon’s second younger sister
Grandnephew - No Hoe-shin (노회신, 盧懷愼)
Grandnephew - No Yu-shin (노유신, 盧由愼)
Grandnephew - No Sa-shin (노사신, 盧思愼) (1427 - 1498)
Grandniece-in-law - Lady Gyeong of the Cheongju Gyeong clan (청주 경씨); daughter of Gyeong Yu-geun (경유근, 慶由謹)
Great-Grandniece - Lady No of the Gyoha No clan (교하 노씨, 交河 盧氏) (1460 - ?)
Grandnephew - No Ho-shin (노호신, 盧好愼)
Niece - Lady No of the Gyoha No clan (교하 노씨, 交河 盧氏)
Nephew-in-law - Yi Jong-in (이종인, 李種仁)
Niece - Lady No of the Gyoha No clan (교하 노씨, 交河 盧氏)
Nephew-in-law - Choi Hu (최후, 崔厚)Consort

Yi Bang-won, King Taejong (조선 태종) (13 June 1367 - 30 May 1422)
Father-in-law - Yi Dan, King Taejo of Joseon (조선 태조) (27 October 1335 – 18 June 1408)
Mother-in-law - Queen Sinui of the Anbyeon Han clan (신의왕후 한씨)  (1337 - 21 October 1391)Issue
4 daughters and 8 sons:

Princess Jeongsun (정순공주) (1385 - 18 September 1460)
Princess Gyeongjeong (경정공주) (1387 - 29 June 1455)
Unnamed grand prince (대군)
Unnamed grand prince (대군)
Unnamed grand prince (대군)
Princess Gyeongan (경안공주) (1393 - 8 June 1415)
Yi Je, Grand Prince Yangnyeong (이제 양녕대군) (1394 - 8 November 1462)
Yi Bo, Grand Prince Hyoryeong (이보 효령대군) (29 January 1396 - 22 June 1486)
Yi Do, King Sejong the Great (세종대왕) (15 May 1397 - 30 March 1450)
Princess Jeongseon (정선공주) (1404 - 5 March 1424)
Yi Jong, Grand Prince Seongnyeong (이종 성녕대군) (12 August 1405 - 20 March 1418)
Unnamed grand prince (대군) (1412 - 1412)

In popular culture
Portrayed by Kim Young-ran in the 1983 TV series The King of Chudong Palace.
Portrayed by Choi Myung-gil in the 1996–98 TV series Tears of the Dragon and in the 2008 TV series The Great King, Sejong.
Portrayed by Kang Se-jung in the 2014 TV series Jeon Do-jeon.
Portrayed by Im Ye-jin in the 2015 TV series Splash Splash Love.
Portrayed by Gong Seung-yeon in the 2015–16 TV series Six Flying Dragons.
Portrayed by Kim Sa-hee in the 2015 film Empire of Lust.
Portrayed by Seo Young-hee in the 2021 TV series Joseon Exorcist.
Portrayed by Park Jin-hee in the 2021–22 TV series Taejong Yi Bang-won.
Portrayed by Cha Joo-young in the upcoming tvN series, but she is considering her title role.

See also
King Taejo
Empress Myeongseong
Queen Inhyeon
King Sejong
King Jeongjong
King Taejong
Empress Sunmyeong
Yeoheung Min clan
Grand Internal Princess Consort Sunmok

References
External links
원경왕후 (in Korean). Doosan Encyclopedia.
"Queen Wongyeong". ROYAL LADIES OF JOSEON DYNASTY.