Wonju (Korean pronunciation: [wʌn.dzu]) is the most populous city in Gangwon Province, South Korea, with a population of 364,860 as of 2023. The city is located approximately 140 kilometres (87 mi) east of Seoul. 
During the time of Great Joseon, Wonju was the capital of the historic Gangwon Province, one of the Eight Provinces of Korea. It was the site of three crucial battles during the Korean War.

Geography
Wonju sits at the southwestern corner of Gangwon Province, bordering Gyeonggi Province to the west and North Chungcheong Province to the south. Within Gangwon, Wonju borders Yeongwol County to the east and Hoengseong County to the north. Unlike much of Gangwon Province, Wonju is not a mountainous area, but rather a basin along the wide plain created by the Seom River.

Administrative divisions
Wonju City is divided into 1 eup (town), 8 myeon (townships), and 16 dong (neighborhoods).

Transportation
Wonju Bus Terminal
Wonju Express Bus Terminal
Manjong station
Wonju station
Seowonju station
Wonju Airport

Education
Gangneung-Wonju National University
Halla University
Sangji University
Yonsei University (Mirae Campus)
Kyungdong UniversityThere is one international school: Wonju Chinese Primary School (traditional Chinese: 原州華僑小學校; ; Korean: 원주화교소학교).According to data released by Wonju City Hall in 2015, the number of kindergartens located in Wonju was 71.
There are 48 elementary and 22 middle schools, respectively.
In the case of high schools, there are 15 general high schools, 2 special purpose high schools, and 3 specialized high schools, a total of 20.

Culture
A Rail Park has been built on the disused rail tracks connecting the stations of Pandae and Ganhyeon, for a total of 6.5 km (4.0 mi).
The total ride journey is about 40 minutes, offering scenic views of the surrounding mountains while cycling.

Museums
Mureung Museum
Yonsei University Wonju Museum
Museum yetchaek towns
Wonju City Museum
Chiak Folk Museum
Myeongjusa Chiaksan and Engraving Museum
Toji Literature park
Toji Cultural Center
Hanji museum
On Museum of the Arts
Museum San

Libraries
Wonju City Library
Taejang Library
Jungcheon Philosophical Library
Wonju Education and Culture Center
Munmak Library

Climate
The climate of Wonju is a hot-Summer, monsoon-influenced Humid continental climate (Köppen: Dwa).

Sports
Wonju is home city of the Wonju DB Promy, playing in the Korean Basketball League. Their home arena is Wonju Gymnasium, which is located in Myeongnyun il-dong, Wonju. The team has won the Championship three times (2002–03, 2004–05, and 2007–08).

Sister cities
Roanoke, Virginia, United States
 Edmonton, Alberta, Canada
 Yantai, Shandong, China
 Hefei, Anhui, China
 Ichikawa, Chiba, Japan
 Belfast, Northern Ireland

Notable people from Wonju
Kwon In-sook (Hangul: 권인숙), South Korean feminist scholar, activist and former labor organizer
Kim Seon-dong (Hangul: 김선동), South Korean politician and Secretary-General of the United Future Party (UFP)
Jee Yong-ju (Hangul: 지용주), South Korean amateur boxer
Kim Jae-woong (Hangul: 김재웅), South Korean football midfielder
Kim Ji-woong (Hangul: 김지웅), South Korean actor and singer
Jang Mi-ran (Hangul: 장미란), South Korean weightlifter
Yoon Jin-hee (Hangul: 윤진희), South Korean weightlifter
Heechul (Real Name: Kim Hee-chul, Hangul: 김희철), singer-songwriter, dancer, model, actor, speaker, MC and K-pop idol, member of K-pop boy group Super Junior, member of the project groups Universe Cowards
Kim Do-yeon (Hangul: 김도연), actress and former member of disbanded K-pop girl group project  I.O.I, K-pop girl group Weki Meki's lead vocalist and visual
Yoon Ji-sung, South Korean singer and actor, former member of disbanded K-pop boy group project Wanna One
Sojung (Real Name: Lee So-jung, Hangul: 이소정), singer, dancer, model and K-pop idol, member of K-pop girlgroup Ladies' Code
Joo Won Ahn (Hangul: 안주원), South Korean ballet dancer
Ahn Young-mi (Hangul: 안영미), South Korean comedian and member of K-pop girl group Celeb Five
Choi Kyu-hah (Hangul: 최규하), South Korean politician and former President of South Korea
Chai-Sik Chung (Hangul: 정채식), Korean-American social ethicist and sociologist of religion
Ham Deok-ju (Hangul: 함덕주), South Korean professional baseball pitcher (Doosan Bears, Korea Baseball Organization)
Han Dong-jin (Hangul: 한동진), South Korean footballer (Jeju United FC, K League 2)
Shin Yu-na (Hangul: 유나), member of K-pop girl group ITZY

Notes
References
Citations
Bibliography
"Corea" , 'Encyclopædia Britannica, 9th ed., Vol. VI, New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1878, pp. 390–394.

External links

(in Korean) Wonju city government home page
Wonju city government home page
 

힐스테이트 원주 레스티지