Flowers of the Prison (Korean: 옥중화; Hanja: 獄中花; RR: Okjunghwa; MR: Okchunghwa) is a 2016 South Korean drama television series starring Jin Se-yeon, Go Soo, Kim Mi-sook, Jung Joon-ho, Park Joo-mi, Yoon Joo-hee, Kim Soo-yeon, Jun Kwang-ryul and Choi Tae-joon. It is MBC's special project drama to commemorate the network's 55th-founding anniversary. The drama also marks the 3rd time collaboration between director Lee Byung-hoon and writer Choi Wan-kyu, after Hur Jun and Sangdo. It replaced Marriage Contract and aired on MBC every Saturdays and Sundays at 22:00 (KST) for 51 episodes from April 30 to November 6, 2016.

Plot
Set during the Joseon dynasty, the series details the story of Ok-nyeo (Jin Se-yeon), a girl who was born and raised in prison, and her adventures with the mysterious Yun Tae-won (Go Soo). She later becomes an advocate for the poor and unfairly accused through the Waeji-bu, the private litigation system in Joseon.

Cast
Main cast
Jin Se-yeon as Ok-nyeo/Lee Seo-won
Jung Da-bin as young Ok-nyeo
Go Soo as Yun Tae-won
Jung Yoon-seok as young Yun Tae-won
Kim Mi-sook as Queen Munjeong
Jung Joon-ho as Yun Won-hyeong
Park Joo-mi as Jeong Nan-jeong
Yoon Joo-hee as Yi So-jeong
Kim Soo-yeon as Yun Shin-hye
Roh Jeong-eui as young Yun Shin-hye
Jun Kwang-ryul as Park Tae-su
Choi Tae-joon as Seong Ji-heon, Podocheong's Captain (포도종사관) ; then key person at Ministry of Personnel 이조장랑.

People of Jeonokseo
Jeonokseo (전옥서, 典獄暑): Royal Prison
Jung Eun-pyo as Ji Cheon-deuk, Jeonokseo's scribe (서리), Ok-nyeo's adoptive father
Kim Eung-soo, special appearance, as Jeonokseo's Director E01
Choi Min-chul as Jeong Dae-sik (Jeonokseo's Director, 전옥서 주부, rank 6)
Im Jeong-ha as Lee Hyo-sung (Jeonokseo's curator, 봉사 rk8)
Park Gil-soo as Yoo Jong-hoe (Jeonokseo's assistant curator, 참봉 rk9)
Ahn Yeo-jin as Yu-geum, kitchen damo
Goo Hye-ryung as Deok-boon, jail damo
Jo Yoon-ho as Jae-deok (Jeonokseo's jailer)
Shorry J as Cheon-doong, pickpocket.
Lee Se-chang as Jeon Woo-chi
Joo Jin-mo as Tojeong Yi Ji-ham, philosophy and strategy teacher of Ok-nyeo.
Lee Jeong-yong as Go Dae-gil

Mapo-Songpa merchants
Lee Hee-do as Gong Jae-myung
Kim Hyung-beom as Do-chi
Wi Yang-ho as Jak-doo
Kim Ik-tae as Seong Hwan-ok

People around Jeong Nan-jeong and Yun Won-hyung
Yoon Yoo-sun, special appearance, as Lady Kim, Yun Won-hyeong's legal wife (김씨 부인, 정실). Exiled at Anggukdong 앙국동, then poisoned.
Maeng Sang-hoon as Jeong Mak-gae, brother of Jeong Nan-jeong.
Kim Yoon-kyung as Min Dong-joo, head merchant, wife of Jeong Mak-gae.
Lee Ip-sae as Oh Jong-geum, lady in waiting then 'Second Madam' of Yun Won-hyeong
Heo Ji-eun as Cheon Sun-geum,
Yeo Ho-min as Dong Chang, henchman of Jeong Nan-jeong.
Yoon Yong-hyun as Jeong Man-ho (Jeong Nan-jeong's younger cousin)

People of gisaeng house Sosoru
Oh Na-ra as Hwang Gyo-ha, Head Gisaeng
Jung Byung-cheol as Seong Cha-heum, administrator
Yoon Joo-hee as Yi So-jeong, main cast, 2nd Head Gisaeng, from Songdo
Lee Ji-seon as Chae-seon
Son Ga-young as Da-jeong
Kim Ji-eun as Myo-hyang
Son Na-rae as Shin-bi
Kim Seon-kyung, cameo, as Tae-won's mother ***

People in the Palace
Seo Ha-joon as King Myeongjong
Lee Seung-ah as Court Lady Han (상궁, Myeongjong's palace), former friend of late Ga-bi.
Ryu Seung-gook as Han Jae-seo (Naegeumwi's Captain, 내금위 종사관, Myeongjong's palace)
Gong Jae-won as Chief Eunuch (Myeongjong's palace)
Kim Mi-sook as Queen Munjeong, main cast
Kwak Min-ho as Gi Chun-su (Naegeumwi's Captain, 내금위 종사관, Queen Dowager's palace)
Kim Min-kyung as Court Lady Kim, (상궁, Queen Dowager's palace)
Kim Beop-rae as King Jungjong (Ok-nyeo's biological father)
Bae Geu-rin as Ga-bi (Ok-nyeo's mother)
Park Joo-hyung as Lee Myung-heon (former Naegeumwi's Captain, Jungjong's reign)
Jung Sung-woon as Prince Deokheung (son of King Jungjong)
Kim Hyun-bin as Prince Haseong (later King Seonjo, third son of Prince Deokheung)Naegeumwi (내금위, 內禁衛): the Palace Guards

Special Service (chetamin, 체탐인)
Jun Kwang-ryul, special appearance, as Park Tae-su, former head of chetamin, then teacher of Chinese and martial arts of Ok-nyeo.
Im Ho as Gang Seon-ho, current head of chetamin. Undercover as Podocheong's lieutenant, then secretary of the War Minister (Daeyun).
Seo Beom-sik as Ju Cheol-gi, instructor. Kills Park Tae-su by order of Yun Won-hyeong. Soyun faction.
Park Jeong-woo as Yun Tae-gyu
Yoon Young-joo as Min Su-ok, former Court Lady (Jungjong's reign)
Go Eun-soo as Cho-hee, Ok-nyeo's escort warrior

People of Podocheong
Podocheong (포도청,  捕盜廳): Agency to Arrest the Thieves 
Kim Tae-young as Podocheong's Chief (포도대장)
Choi Tae-joon as Seong Ji-heon, main cast, Podocheong's Captain (포도종사관) until E22
Yun Jin-ho as Podocheong's Captain (포도종사관) until E37
Ahn Shin-woo as Podocheong's Captain (포도종사관) from E44
Lee Bong-won as Yang Dong-gu (lieutenant, 포도부장)
Jung Woo-shik as Song Seok-wu (lieutenant, 포도부장)

People of Pyeongsiseo
Pyeongsiseo (평시서, 平市署): Marketing Control Office
Sin Guk as Yi Young-shin, Pyeongsiseo's Superintendent 평시서 제조. Yeonggam ranked. E18, E36sqq
Yi Jong-gu as Pyeongsiseo's Superintendent (interim E23)
Go Soo, as Yun Tae-won, main cast, Pyeongsiseo's Administrator 평시서 주부, rank 6a (E23-E40).
Kim Kyung-ryong as Oh Dal-joong, former Pyeongsiseo's Administrator 평시서 주부
Yi Jae-jun (이재준) as 	Jo Se-Oh, Pyeongsiseo's assistant
Gang Jun-yeong (강준영) as Hwang Myeong-geol Pyeongsiseo's assistant

Extended cast
Han In-soo as Lee Jeong-myung, Minister of War
Kim Jin-ho as Jung Sang-ho, Ministry of Rites, then Minister of TaxationHyeongjo (형조, 刑曹): Board of Punishments (Ministry of Justice)
Son Seon-geun as Kim Tae-jeong, Ministry of Justice's secretary, 형조참의, rank 3aSogyeokseo (소격서): A government office which handled the ritual aspect of Taoism of heaven, earth and stars
Song Yong-tae as Sogyeokseo's assistant commissionerGamyeong (감영): Provincial Governor's Office
Cha Geon-woo as Hwanghae-do's governor
Lee Chan as Jang Seon-poong (Haeju Provincial Governor's Office's clerk)
Lee Joo-seok as Lee Jeong-gook (interpreter)

Others
Ratings
In the table below, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.

RemarksEpisode 12 wasn't aired on Sunday June 5 due to broadcast of the football friendly match between Czech Republic and South Korea. This episode was aired on Saturday June 11, 2016.
Episode 28 wasn't aired on Saturday August 6 due to broadcast of the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This episode was aired on Sunday August 7, 2016.
Episode 29 wasn't aired on August 13, August 14 and August 20 due to broadcast of the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. This episode was aired on Sunday, August 21, 2016.

Original soundtrack
OST Part 1
OST Part 2
OST Part 3
Full album
Awards and nominations
References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
The Flower in Prison at MBC Global Media
Flowers of the Prison at HanCinema
The Flower in Prison at IMDb
The Flower in Prison at Daum (in Korean)