Goyang (Goyang-si; Korean pronunciation: [ko.jaŋ]) is a city in Gyeonggi Province in the north of South Korea. It is part of the Seoul Capital Area, making Goyang one of Seoul's satellite cities. It is one of the largest cities in the Seoul Capital Area, with a population of just over 1 million. Ilsan, a planned city, is located in the Ilsandong-gu and Ilsanseo-gu districts of Goyang. It also includes Deogyang-gu which is closer to Seoul.
Several institutions of higher learning are located in Goyang. These include Agricultural Cooperative College, Korea Aerospace University, and Transnational Law and Business University.

Notable places
Historic remains

Bukhansanseong Fortress
Heungguksa Temple
Seosamneung and Seooreung Royal Tombs, UNESCO World Heritage Sites
Haengju seowon (Confucial Academy)
Ilsan Bamgasi Choga (Straw-roofed House)Exhibitions 

Goyang Aram Nuri Arts Center
Goyang Oulim Nuri Arts Center
KINTEX
Aerospace Museum
Baedari Korean Traditional Wine Museum
Theme Zoo Park "Zoo Zoo"
Cultural Center and Museum of Latin America
Nongshim Theme Park
Hyundai Motor Studio Goyang
Hanhwa Aqua Planet aquariumEntertainment and shopping

MBC Dream Center
SBS Broadcasting Center
Western Dorm
Lafesta
Lotte Department Store
Hyundai Department Store
New-Core Outlet
Hwajeong station
Starfield Goyang
IKEA GoyangLeisure

Bukhan Mountain
Jeongbal Mountain
Go Bong Mountain
Lake Park
Goyang Sports Complex

Regular festivals
Haengjusanseong Fortress Sun Rise FestivalOn New Year's Day each year, a splendid festival is thrown at Haengju Sanseong to welcome the New Year's Day sunrise.
Time: 5:00-9:00 AM on New Year's Day each year
Place: The top of the mountain where Haengju Sanseong sits.

The Great Battle of Haengju FestivalThe event is held to commemorate an important victory in Korean history (14 March) at Haengju Sanseong. Elementary school kids and their parents from the neighborhood can watch memorial services for patriotic martyrs of the nation and learn about the history of Haengju Sanseong.
Time: 10 AM on 14 March each year
Place: Chungjang Shrine at Haengju Sanseoeng

Goyang International Flower FestivalFloricultural industry sprang up in the early 1970s fostering flower culture in Korea. Goyang became one of the most famous cities for its floricultural industry and its flower show grew into a horticultural event representing Korea and a venue for trading among participants at home and from abroad.
-Time: early April each year 
-Place: Areas surrounding Ilsan Lake Park

Goyang Lake Art FestivalThe event is free-style arts festival held at various locations around the Lake Park. Imagination and wits of artists getting out of the constraints imposed by stages fill the streets with vigor and romantic mood. Various performing arts including jazz, mime, dance, drama and installation arts decking out the venue with colorful decorations to add glamour, passionate performance by famous theatrical companies from around the world and fancy fireworks all let the cheerful spectators enjoy the excitement thrown by the festival.
Time: October each year
Place: locations around the Lake Park

Geography
Ilsan New Town vaguely comes to mind, but in reality, the eastern boundary is Bukhansan, the western boundary is the Han River, and the city area itself is large and has various geographical features. However, Bukhansan is a region protruding to the east, and the eastern end of the border with Seoul is actually a hilly area connecting Mt. Aengbong and Mt. Bongsan. Across the Han River to the west is the city of Gimpo.
At the time of the expansion of Seoul, the eastern area was given to Seoul, but Bukhansan was guided, so if you look closely at the administrative divisions on the map, it looks like a kitchen knife or a stake. Bukhansan Mountain is clearly visible from the vicinity of Jichuk, and surprisingly, if you drive along the freeway from the middle floor of an apartment building in Ilsan New Town [10] or even from the side of Isanpo, you can see Bukhansan Mountain in the distance. You can roughly estimate the weather on that day by whether you can see it well or not.

Climate
Goyang has a monsoon-influenced humid continental climate (Köppen: Dwa) with cold, dry winters and hot, rainy summers.

Sports
The ice hockey team High1, based in Chuncheon, played some of its home Asia League Ice Hockey matches at the Goyang Ice Rink, before they withdrew from the league in 2019.Former football teams in Goyang include Goyang KB Kookmin Bank FC and Goyang Zaicro FC. Currently, there is the K4 League team Goyang Citizen FC.
The Korean Basketball League team Goyang Sono Skygunners is also based in the city.

Transport
Public transport
Bike sharing
Goyang used to be served by a bike sharing system called Fifteen (KR:피프틴), which was replaced by a new system Tajo (KR:타조).

Railroads
Subway

Line 3: Jichuk~Daehwa
Gyeongui-Jungang Line : Hwajeon~TanhyeonCommuter Rail

Gyeongui Line: Hwajeon~Tanhyeon (Neunggok for DMZ Train)High Speed Railways

Gyeongbu, Honam, Jeolla, Gyeongjeon and Donghae : Haengsin Station

Buses
Bus stops on Goyang Bus Rapid Transit (BRT)

Daehwa Station
Ilsanseo-gu office, Paik Hospital
Ilsandong-gu office
Daegok Station
Haengsin dong
Deogeun dongTypes of buses

Yellow bus: connects nearby
Green and Blue bus: connects citiesand districts.

Red Bus: express one, goes a wide area.
M bus: more express one, goes a wide area, but not included in G bus and Seoul busBus Terminals

Hwajeong terminal: located in Deogyang-gu
Goyang terminal: located in Ilsandong-gu
Wide-area transportation connecting Seoul and Paju, etc., is developed. Goyang Terminal and Hwajeong Terminal are in charge of intercity transportation, and those who need to use regular trains tend to go to Seoul Station or Yongsan Station. However, there is a station attached to the KTX depot, so some KTX trains stop.

Notable people from Goyang
Do Kyung-soo – singer, dancer, model, actor and member of Exo
Jinjin – rapper and leader of Astro
RM – rapper and leader of BTS
Empress Gi – empress of the Yuan dynasty
Heo Young-ji – singer, television personality and former member of Kara
Ha Sung-woon – singer and member of Wanna One and Hotshot
Yohan Hwang – singer
Jay B – singer and leader of Got7
Jang Mi-ran – weightlifter
Jeon So-min – actress, model, entertainer
Kang Min-hyuk – musician, drummer, singer-songwriter, actor and member of CNBLUE
Kim Da-som – singer, actress and former member of Sistar
Kim Hyun-joo – actress
Kim Junsu – singer, model, dancer, stage actor, member of JYJ and former member of TVXQ
Kwon Yu-ri – singer and member of Girls' Generation
Lee Do-hyun – actor
Lee Jun-ho – singer, songwriter, dancer, composer, actor and member of 2PM
Lee Jung-shin – musician, bassist, singer, rapper, actor and member of CNBLUE
Eunhyuk – singer, rapper, actor, member of Super Junior
Sungmin – singer, songwriter, actor, member of Super Junior
Young K – bassist, vocalist, rapper and member of Day6
Qri – singer, actress, leader and member of T-ara and its sub-group QBS
Song Ji-hyo – actress
Yoon Doo-joon – singer, actor and member of Highlight
Yuju – singer and former member of GFriend
Park Ye-eun – singer and former Wonder Girls member
Kihyun – singer and member of Monsta X

International relations
Twin towns – sister cities
Goyang is twinned with:

Friendship cities
Administrative districts
Ilsanseo-gu (Ilsan Westside)
Ilsandong-gu (Ilsan Eastside)
Deogyang-gu

See also
List of cities in South Korea
Geography of South Korea
Seoul National Capital Area
Goyang Geumjeong Cave Massacre

References
External links

 Goyang travel guide from Wikivoyage
The Official Website of Goyang City (in English)