Kim (Korean: 김; Hanja: 金) is the most common surname in Korea. As of the 2015 South Korean census, there were 10,689,959 people by this name in South Korea or 21.5% of the population. Although the surname is always pronounced the same, dozens of different family clans (bon-gwan) use it. The clan system in Korea is unique from the surname systems of other countries. Kim is written as 김 (gim) in both North and South Korea. The hanja for Kim, 金, can also be transliterated as 금 (geum) which means 'gold, metal, iron'. While romanized as Kim by 99.3% of the population, other rare variant romanizations such as Gim, Ghim, and Kin consist of the remaining 0.6%.

Origin
The first historical document that records the surname dates to 636 and references it as the surname of Korean King Jinheung of Silla (526–576). In the Silla kingdom (57 BCE – 935 CE)—which variously battled and allied with other states on the Korean peninsula and ultimately unified most of the country in 668—Kim was the name of a family that rose to prominence and became the rulers of Silla for 586 years. Silla and Gaya clans Kim came from the Huns (Xiongnu), according to the history books. Many scholars have suggested that Kim Alji (Alti) may have been the chief of a "gold" (altin) clan of Korea and Manchuria, whose story is similar to the legend of Alji Geo-seo-khan.

Clans
As with other Korean surnames, different clans, known as bon-gwan, are inherited from a father to his children. These designate the region of Korea or paternal ancestor from which they claim to originate.
The 2000 South Korean census listed 348 extant Kim lineages.

Major clans
Uiseong
The Uiseong Kim (의성김씨; 義城金氏) clan traces its lineage back to Kim Seok, also known as Kim Jung-seok, the son of Gyeongsun of Silla.

Andong
There are two Andong Kim clans (안동김씨; 安東金氏), distinguished as Gu (구; 舊) and Shin (신; 新), that have two separate progenitors.
Some of the notable Gu Andong Kim clan members were General Kim Si-min and Prime Minister Kim Sa-hyeong, who was involved with the Gangnido map, as well as Royal Noble Consort Hwi was banished for witchcraft.The Shin Andong Kim clan was one of the powerful clans that dominated the later part of Joseon. One of the most powerful members from the clan was Kim Jo-sun, who was the father-in-law to Sunjo of Joseon. Kim Josun's daughter was Queen Sunwon.

Gimhae (Kimhae)
The origin of the clan traces back to Suro of Geumgwan Gaya who had ten children, thus starting the Kim dynasty of Geumgwan Gaya, the capital of which was in present-day Gimhae. Famous ancient members of this clan, aside from the kings of Geumgwan Gaya, include the Silla general Kim Yu-sin. In Later Silla, members of the Gimhae Kim family were admitted to all but the highest level of the Silla bone rank system.
This clan is by far the most populous of all Korean clans. According to the 2015 South Korean census, there were 4,456,700 Gimhae Kim clan members in South Korea.

Gyeongju
The Gyeongju Kims (경주김씨; 慶州金氏) trace their descent from the ruling family of Silla. The founder of this clan is said to have been Kim Alji, an orphan adopted by King Talhae of Silla in the 1st century CE. Alji's seventh-generation descendant was the first member of the clan to take the throne, as King Michu of Silla in the year 262. According to the South Korean census of 2015, there were 1,800,853 Gyeongju Kims in South Korea.

Nagan
The Nagan Kim clan (낙안김씨; 樂安金氏) is small. Its progenitor, Kim Sujing (김수징; 金粹澄), was a descendant of the last king of Silla and established their ancestral home in Suncheon. In the South Korean census of 2000, less than 10,000 citizens claimed to be Nagan Kims.

Hamchang
The Hamchang Kim clan (함창김씨; 咸昌金氏) trace their origin to the founder of the little-known Gaya confederacy state of Goryeong Gaya, King Taejo. His alleged tomb, rediscovered in the sixteenth century, is still preserved by the modern-day members of the clan. This clan numbered only 26,300 members in the 2000 South Korean census.

Gwangsan
The Gwangsan Kim clan (광산김씨; 光山金氏) was one of the most prominent clans during Joseon. The Gwangsan Kims are the descendants of Kim Heung-gwang (김흥광, 金興光), who was the third prince of Sinmu of Silla, its 45th monarch.

Yaseong
The Yaseong Kim clan (야성김씨; 野城金氏) is from Yeongdeok County. The name Yeongdeok replaced an earlier name, Yaseong, which means 'city in the wilderness', and dates its origins back to Silla.

Cheongpung
The Cheongpung Kim clan (청풍김씨; 淸風金氏) was one of the aristocratic families during the Joseon. Two queens were from this clan during that period. Several members of the clan also became prime ministers.

Yeonan
The Yeonan Kim clan (연안김씨; 延安金氏) was an aristocratic family clan that had members in high government positions during the Joseon. Six members of the clan were prime ministers. The founder of the Yeonan Kim clan was Kim Seom-han, a descendant of Kim Alji.

Gangneung
The Gangneung Kim clan (강릉김씨; 江陵金氏) originated from Gangneung in Gangwon Province. The progenitor was Kim Juwon (김주원; 金周元) who was a descendant of Muyeol of Silla.

Sangsan
The Sangsan Kim clan (상산김씨; 商山金氏) originated from Sangju in North Gyeongsang Province. The progenitor was Kim Su (김수; 金需) and the clan had members that participated in the Joseon government.

Ulsan
The Ulsan Kim clan (울산김씨; 蔚山金氏) originated from Ulsan in Yeongnam. One of the members of this clan, Kim Inhu, was one of the 18 Sages of Korea and honored as a Munmyo Bae-hyang (문묘배향; 文廟配享).

Seoheung
The Seoheung Kim clan (서흥김씨; 瑞興金氏) was one of the smaller Kim clans during the Joseon. The progenitor was Kim Bo (김보; 金寶) and one of the members was Kim Gwoeng-pil (김굉필; 金宏弼), who was one of the 18 Sages of Korea and honored as Munmyo Bae-hyang (문묘배향; 文廟配享).

Wonju
The Wonju Kim clan (원주김씨; 原州金氏) might be one of the smallest Kim clans during the Joseon. They had two members that became prime ministers during that period.

Jeonju
According to the South Korean census of 2015, there were 56,989 members of the Jeonju Kim clan in South Korea. Its progenitor, Kim Tae-seo (김태서; 金台瑞), was descended from the last king of Silla, Gyeongsun of Silla. South Korean artist Kim Hee-chul is from the Jeonju clan, as are the North Korean leaders Kim Il Sung, Kim Jong Il, and Kim Jong Un.

Other clans
Notable people
See also
Culture of Korea
Korean name
List of Korean family names


== References ==