More Than a Maid (Korean: 하녀들; RR: Hanyeodeul; lit. Maids) is a 2015 South Korean television series starring Jeong Yu-mi, Oh Ji-ho, Kim Dong-wook, Lee Si-a, Jeon So-min and Lee Yi-kyung. It aired on jTBC from January 23 to March 28, 2015 on Fridays and Saturdays at 21:45 (KST) time slot for 20 episodes.

Synopsis
Guk In-yeob (Jeong Yu-mi) is the only daughter of a Joseon nobleman, and her beauty and style has her surrounded by plentiful admirers, among them Kim Eun-gi (Kim Dong-wook), a young scholar from an important family who's loved In-yeob since they were young. But one day In-yeob's father is branded a traitor, causing her family to be forced into ruin, and overnight the city's most popular young lady becomes a slave. In-yeob has difficulty adjusting from her pampered past to her present life as the lowly maid to her former rival. She learns to survive by her wits and befriends her fellow slaves, including Moo-myung (meaning "nameless"), a mysterious manservant who once saved her when she was still an aristocrat. Although Eun-gi remains devoted to In-yeob, her changed social status becomes an obstacle to his promising future, and meanwhile, she begins to fall for the stoic, level-headed but charismatic Moo-myung (Oh Ji-ho), who unbeknownst to all is a warrior on an undercover assignment regarding matters of political import.

Cast
Main
Jeong Yu-mi as Guk In-yeob, daughter of State Councilor
Oh Ji-ho as Moo-myung / Lee Bi, head servant of Defense Minister's household
Kim Dong-wook as Kim Eun-gi, son of Finance Minister
Lee Si-a as Heo Yoon-ok, daughter of Defense Minister

State Councilor's household
Jeon No-min as Gook Yoo, Gook In-yeob's father
Lee Cho-hee as Sawol-yi, Gook In-jeob's personal maid
Im Hyun-sung as Poong-yi, servant
Ji Seung-hyun as Duk-goo, Gook Yoo's personal servant

Defense Minister's household
Park Chul-min as Heo Eung-cham, Defense Minister, Heo Yoon-ok's father
Jeon Mi-seon as Lady Yoon, Heo Yoon-ok's mother
Lee Yi-kyung as Heo Yoon-seo, Heo Yoon-ok's brother
Lee El as Lady Kang, Heo Yoon-seo's wife
Chae Gook-hee as Hae-sang, head maid
Lee Yeon-kyung as Dan-ji's mother, maid
Jeon So-min as Dan-ji, maid, Heo Yoon-seo's lover
Jeon Soo-jin as Gaeddong-yi, Heo Yoon-ok's personal maid
Kim Jong-hoon as Ddeok-soe, butcher
Shim Hoon-ki as Yong-joon, servant
Kim Hye-na as Ok-yi, maid

Finance Minister's household
Kim Kap-soo as Kim Chi-kwon, Finance Minister, Kim Eun-gi's father
Jin Hee-kyung as Lady Han, Kim Eun-gi's mother
Yang Seung-pil as Ba-woo, servant

Others
Ahn Nae-sang as Lee Bang-won, later King Taejong
Lee Do-kyung as Lee Sung-gye, later King Taejo
Lee Chae-young as Ga Hee-ah, kisaeng
Uhm Tae-goo as Chi-bok, Man Wol warrior
Oh Hee-joon as Hui-ju

Production
The first episode originally aired on December 12, 2014, but a fire on December 13 destroyed the More Than a Maid set in Yeoncheon County and resulted in the death of one crew member, script coordinator Yeom Hye-sun. In the aftermath, the series went on hiatus for six weeks.A new set was constructed in Yeongjongdo, and filming resumed on January 12, 2015. A re-edited version of the first episode aired on January 23, 2015.

Ratings
In this table, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.
N/A denotes that the rating is not known.This drama airs on a cable channel/pay TV which normally has a relatively smaller audience compared to free-to-air TV/public broadcasters (KBS, SBS, MBC and EBS).

Awards and nominations
International broadcast
References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
More Than a Maid at HanCinema