Sungkyunkwan Scandal (Korean: 성균관 스캔들) is a South Korean historical drama starring Park Yoo-chun, Park Min-young, Song Joong-ki, and Yoo Ah-in. Directed by Kim Won-seok and written by Kim Tae-hee, it is based on Jung Eun-gwol's bestselling 2007 novel The Lives of Sungkyunkwan Confucian Scholars. It aired on KBS2 from August 30 to November 2, 2010 on Mondays and Tuesdays at 21:55 for 20 episodes.

Synopsis
Set during an era when society does not permit females to be either educated or employed, Kim Yoon-hee (Park Min-young) disguises herself as her brother, Kim Yoon-shik, in order to make ends meet for her family. She goes through a series of odd jobs, mainly at a local bookstore, before she gets offered a chance to increase her earnings by becoming a substitute test-taker (an illegal act) for the upcoming entrance examination for Sungkyunkwan, the Joseon Dynasty's highest educational institute. She gets caught by the upright Lee Sun-joon (Park Yoo-chun), who later acknowledges Yoon-hee's talents, and even encourages her to enrol in the university. There, she must bear with the endless mischief of upperclassman Gu Yong-ha (Song Joong-ki), put up with the constant mood swings of her rebel roommate Moon Jae-shin (Yoo Ah-in), avoid getting in trouble with the strict student body president Ha In-soo (Jun Tae-soo), and keep her secret from being discovered, all the while trying to hold her growing feelings for Lee Sun-joon at bay.
Together, Kim, Lee, Gu, and Moon form the "Jalgeum Quartet".The background to the drama is the reign of King Jeongjo and his struggles in dealing with the factional politics of his time, struggles in which he enlists the quartet. The final episodes deal with the Geumdeung document. And Sungkyunkwan, that place of Confucian learning, is the place where students and teachers learn from each other, causing radical changes in their thinking, and so sacred a place is it, that even royal guards may not enter.

Cast
Main
Park Yoo-chun as Yi Seon-jun, nicknamed "Ga-rang"
Park Min-young as Kim Yun-hee (when girl)/Kim Yoon-shik (when boy), nicknamed "Dae-mul"Bang Jun-seo as young Kim Yunhee
Song Joong-ki as Gu Yong-ha, nicknamed "Yeo-rim"
Yoo Ah-in as Mun Jae-sin, nicknamed "Geol-o"

Supporting
Jun Tae-soo as Ha In-su
Seo Hyo-rim as Ha Hyo-eun
Kim Min-seo as Jo-seon
Ahn Nae-sang as Jeong Yak-yong
Jo Sung-ha as King Jeongjo of Joseon
Kim Kap-soo as Yi Jeong-mu, second state councillor and Seon-jun's father
Lee Jae-yong as Ha U-gyu, minister of military affairs and In-su's father

Extended
Cameos
Lee In as Park Dal-jae (episode 1)
Lee Won-jong as Shaman (episode 8)
Park Chul-min as Yoon Hyung-gu (episode 9, 17~18)
Ki Im-beom as Song Yong-tae (episode 9~10)
Lee Dal-hyung as Yong-ha's father (episode 17~18)

Notes
Reception
The series attracted a fervent fanbase that belied its modest mid-teen ratings. Its cult popularity was manifested in the very high online activity on the message boards of its official website and in popular portal DC Inside, the number of episode viewings on the KBS website, as well as units of DVDs and OST albums sold. The original soundtrack, which featured Park Yoo-chun's band JYJ, sold 110,000 copies in a couple of weeks. The old campus of Sungkyunkwan University (SKKU) was the setting for the fusion historical drama, which also starred alumnus Song Joong-ki, resulting in increased interest in SKKU from international audiences who watched the drama.

Ratings
Awards and nominations
Theatrical versions
The series was edited into a theatrical version which screened in Japanese cinemas from May 6–19, 2011 as part of the "Dokimeki☆Ikemen Festival."For the drama's first anniversary, Korean cable channel QTV (a joint venture between Turner Broadcasting System and JoongAng Ilbo's affiliate, IS Plus) re-edited the series into a two-hour TV movie which aired on September 10, 2011.

References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
Sungkyunkwan Scandal on KBS WorldSungkyunkwan Scandal at HanCinema
Sungkyunkwan Scandal at IMDb