Haechi (Korean: 해치; Hanja: 獬豸; RR: Haechi) is a 2019 South Korean television series starring Jung Il-woo, Go Ara, Kwon Yul, and Park Hoon. Produced by Kim Jong-hak Production, it aired on SBS TV from February 11 to April 30, 2019, every Monday and Tuesday at 22:00 (KST) time slot for 48 episodes.

Synopsis
Set during the Joseon Dynasty period, the series follows four people from different walks of life who came together to help  Yi Geum, Prince Yeoning (later King Yeongjo)  claim the throne and reform the Saheonbu.

Cast
Main
Jung Il-woo as Yi Geum, Prince Yeoning (later King Yeongjo)An intelligent and zealous prince who is discriminated against for his mother's lowly background.Go Ara as Chun Yeo-jiA female police detective of the Saheonbu. One of the best female investigators, she has a talent for both martial arts and foreign languages. Later, she enters the palace as a court maid for Queen Dowager Inwon.Kwon Yul as Bak Mun-suA passionate man who seeks justice and aims to protect the weak and the poor. He is preparing for the civil service exam to become a public officer. Later, he becomes an investigator of Saheonbu and a secret investigator for King YeongjoPark Hoon as Dal-moonPortraying himself as a beggar, he controls a network of informants and storytellers who collects informations from all around Joseon's capital and have capabilities in influencing common people's opinionLee Geung-young as Min Jin-won, the late Queen Inhyeon's brother, one of a leader of Noron political faction and one of the most seasoned politician in Joseon court
Jung Moon-sung as Yi Tan, Prince Milpung, Crown Prince Sohyeon's direct descendant. He believes that the Joseon throne should be owned by descendant of Crown Prince Sohyeon. Using all means necessary, he tries to seize the position of Crown Prince and, subsequently, the throne
Bae Jung-hwa as Chun Yoon-young / Bok-dan. Dreaming to become the Queen of Joseon, she helps Prince Milpung's cause and becomes his partner
Han Sang-jin as Wi Byung-joo. An investigator of Saheonbu. Came from a family of Namin (Southerners) political faction, he faces difficulties in his career as investigator, until he aligns himself with Noron political faction and becomes their hands in controlling Saheonbu on their behalf.

Supporting
Han Ji-sang as Do Ji-kwang
Park Ji-yeon as Cho Hong
Yoo Jung-rae as Kyu Hwa-eun
Han Seung-hyun as Yi Yun, Crown Prince Hwiso (Later King Gyeongjong)
Nam Gi-ae as Queen Inwon
Choi Soo-im as Queen Jeongseong / Lady Seo
Jung Sun-won as Joo Young-han
Jung In-seo as Go-mi
Choi Min-chul as Yoon Hyuk
Jeon Bae-soo as Jang Dal
Ahn Seung-gyun as Ah Bong
Im Ho as Yi Kwang-jwa
Do Ki-seok as Kae Dol
Ha Sung-kwang as Ja Dong
Seo Eun-yul as Han Joon-jae
Lee Won-jae as Kim Chang-jib
Kim Jong-soo as Lee I-myung
Noh Young-hak as Yi Hwon, Prince Yeonryeong
Lee Jae-woo as New Inspector
Lee Pil-mo as Han Jeong Seok
Song Ji-in as Crown Princess Eo (Later Queen Seonui)
Go Joo-won as Yi In-Jwa
Lee Do-yeop as Jo Hyeon-myeong

Special appearance
Kim Kap-soo as Yi Sun, King Sukjong

Production
First script reading took place December 2018 at SBS Ilsan Production Studios in Goyang, Gyeonggi Province, South Korea.
On March 7, 2019, it was reported during the filming of the drama Go Ara ruptured her Anterior talofibular ligament which resulted her to be hospitalised and wear a cast.

Original soundtrack
Part 1
Part 2
Ratings
In this table, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.
NR denotes that the drama did not rank in the top 20 daily programs on that date.
N/A denotes that the rating is not known.

Awards and nominations
Notes
References
External links
Official website (in Korean)
Haechi at IMDb
Haechi at HanCinema