Warrior Baek Dong-soo (Korean: 무사 백동수; RR: Musa Baek Dong-su) is a 2011 South Korean fusion historical/action television series starring Ji Chang-wook in the title role, with Yoo Seung-ho, Yoon So-yi,  Shin Hyun-bin, Choi Min-soo and Jun Kwang-ryul. It aired on SBS from July 4 to October 10, 2011, on Mondays and Tuesdays at 21:55 (KST) for 29 episodes.Based on the 2010 comic Honorable Baek Dong-soo by Lee Jae-heon, the series is about how Joseon historical figure Baek Dong-soo grew to become a swordsman and folk hero. Baek was one of the three authors of Muyedobotongji, a pivotal martial arts work commissioned by King Jeongjo.

Synopsis
Set against the backdrop of political maneuverings in Joseon between different factions, namely those led by King Jeongjo (Hong Jong-hyun), by the Qing ambassador, by the Japanese swordsman Kenzo (Lee Yong-woo), and the assassin's guild Heuksa Chorong, the series is a coming-of-age drama about brotherhood, friendship, loyalty and honor.

Cast
Main
Ji Chang-wook as Baek Dong-soo
Yeo Jin-goo as young Dong-sooA carefree swordsman who alters the fate of the nation as a member of the royal guard.Yoo Seung-ho as Yeo Woon
Park Gun-tae as young WoonSon of Yeo Cho-sang. Dong-soo's friend and seeming nemesis. He lives in the shadows as the mole for a mysterious assassin collective aiming to overthrow the dynasty.Yoon So-yi as Hwang Jin-joo
Lee Hye-in as young Jin-jooDong-soo's childhood friend. Daughter of Ji / Ga-Ok and Kim Gwang-taek.Shin Hyun-bin as Yoo Ji-sun
Nam Ji-hyun as young Ji-sunConsort of Prince Sado, and later love interest of Dong-soo and Woon.Choi Min-soo as ChunLeader of assassin's guild Heuksa Chorong, and Yeo Woon's mentor.Jun Kwang-ryul as Kim Gwang-taekJoseon's top swordsman, and Dong-soo's mentor.

Supporting
Hong Jong-hyun as King Jeongjo
Park Jun-gyu as Heuk Sa-mo, Baek Dong-soo's guardian.
Park Won-sang as Jang Dae-pyo, leader of the training camp.
Lee Jin-ah as Jang-mi, Heuk Sa-mo's love interest.
Yoon Ji-min as Ji / Ga-Ok, love interest of Chun and Kim Gwang-taek; mother of Jin-joo.
Park Chul-min as In / Dae Ung, one of the three leaders of Heuksa Chorong.
Oh Man-seok as Crown Prince Sado
Jeon Guk-hwan as King Yeongjo
Geum Dan-bi as Queen Jeongsun
Lee Won-jong as Hong Dae-ju, Joseon's Minister of State and the series' principal villain.
Jung Ho-bin as Im Soo-woong, right-hand man to Prince Sado.
Ahn Suk-hwan as Seo Yoo-dae, a Joseon general and loyal ally of Prince Sado.
Kim Dong-kyun as Boo Gwan, Hong Dae-ju's incompetent deputy.
Choi Jae-hwan as Yang Cho-rip or Hong Guk-yeong, friend of Dong-soo and Woon.
Shin Dong-woo as young Cho-rip
Um Hyo-sup as Baek Sa-geong
Kim Hee-jung as Lady Park
Lee Kye-in as Yeo Cho-sang, Yeo Woon's father.
Sung Ji-ru as Hwang Jin-gi, Jin-joo's adoptive father.
Kim Da-hyun as Kim Hong-do, painter and ally of Dong-soo. He is romantically interested in Jin-joo.
Kim Eung-soo as Yoo So-kang
Ji Yoo as Jang Mi-so, daughter of Jang Dae-pyo, and later love interest of Cho-rip.
Im Kang-sung as Hong Sa-hye, son of Hong Dae-ju.
Choi Yoon-so as Goo-hyang, palace lady that helps Yeo Woon when he becomes Sky Lord.
Lee Si-eon as Dae-heung
Lee Yong-woo as Kenzo, a Japanese samurai.
Choi Yoo-sung
Jo Woo-jin

Original soundtrack
Part 1
Part 2
Part 3
Part 4
Part 5
Part 6
Part 7
Part 8
Part 9
Ratings
In the table below, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.

Awards and nominations
References
External links
Warrior Baek Dong-soo official SBS website (in Korean)
Warrior Baek Dong-soo at HanCinema
Warrior Baek Dong-soo at IMDb