Secret Healer (Korean: 마녀보감; Hanja: 魔女寶鑑; RR: Manyeobogam; lit. Mirror of the Witch), is a 2016 South Korean television series starring Yoon Shi-yoon, Kim Sae-ron, Lee Sung-jae, Yum Jung-ah and Kwak Si-yang. The story of the series is inspired by the book titled Dongui Bogam. It aired on cable network JTBC's Fridays and Saturdays at 20:30 (KST) time slot from May 13 to July 16, 2016 for 20 episodes.

Synopsis
Queen Shim (Jang Hee-jin), is a royal queen in the palace who, unable to have a child, seeks the help of a shaman named Hong-joo (Yum Jung-ah) to give birth to a prince. Hong-joo told Queen Shim to deceive a young shaman named Hae-ran (Jung In-seon) who possessed special abilities enabling her to sleep with the king so she can become pregnant. Hong-joo then uses black magic to transfer the fetus to the Queen and plans to kill Hae-ran. Unfortunately, Hae-ran finds out everything, predicting the sad fate of the Queen's babies before dying. Queen Shim later gives birth to twins, Crown Prince Soonhwae (Yeo Hoe-hyun) and princess Yeon-hee (Kim Sae-ron), but was forced to abandon the princess due to the curse. With the help of Shaman Choi Hyun-seo (Lee Sung-jae), Yeon-hee grows up as a beautiful young girl, but she is forced to remain isolated and away from everyone, living in a house surrounded by talismans. Poong-yeon (Kwak Si-yang), Hyun-seo's son, has had a crush on her since he was young. A young scholar named Heo Jun (Yoon Shi-yoon), the son of a slave and a rich master, has a chance encounter with Yeon-hee and Heo Jun ties their fate as they journey together to lift the princess' curse which causes everyone she loves to die an awful death.

Cast
Main
Yoon Shi-yoon as Heo Jun
Kim Sae-ron as Princess Seo-ri / Yeon-hee
Lee Sung-jae as Choi Hyun-seo
Yum Jung-ah as Shaman Choi Hong-joo
Kwak Si-yang as Poong-yeon

Supporting
Royal household
Jang Hee-jin as Queen Shim
Lee Ji-hoon as King Seonjo
Yeo Hoe-hyun as Crown Prince Soonhwoe

People of Sogyeokseo
Lee Yi-kyung as Yo-kwang
N/A as Cheon-choo
N/A as Cheon-kwon
N/A as Ok-hyung
N/A as Gae-yang

Heo Jun's family
Jo Dal-hwan as Heo Ok
N/A as Heo Yoon

Extended
Special appearances
Ratings
In this table, the blue numbers represent the lowest ratings and the red numbers represent the highest ratings.

This drama airs on a cable channel/pay TV which normally has a relatively smaller audience compared to free-to-air TV/public broadcasters (KBS, SBS and MBC and EBS).

Original soundtrack
OST Part 1
OST Part 2
OST Part 3
OST Part 4
Remark
Episode 7 did not air on Friday June 3 due to the broadcast of the 52nd Paeksang Arts Awards. This episode was aired on Saturday June 4, the same day as episode 8.

Awards and nominations
Notes
References
External links
Official website
Secret Healer at Apollo Pictures
Secret Healer at Drama House
Secret Healer at Media N Art
Secret Healer at HanCinema
Secret Healer at Daum (in Korean)
Secret Healer at IMDb